<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2809_402_T48_60116110111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2809.402</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Contracting activities shall:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Consider debarment or suspension of a contractor when cause is shown as listed under FAR 9.406-2 and FAR 9.407-2. Contracting staffs should consult with their appropriate legal counsel prior to making a decision to initiate debarment or suspension proceedings. If a determination is made that available facts do not justify beginning debarment or suspension proceedings, the file should be documented accordingly. This determination should be subject to reconsideration if new information or additional fact-finding so justifies.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) If the decision is made to initiate debarment and/or suspension of a contractor, immediately prepare a notice in accordance with FAR 9.406-3(c) of FAR 9.407-3(c). The draft notice, along with the administrative file containing all relevant facts and analysis shall be forwarded to the PE, as the debarring and suspending official, following review by the activity's legal counsel and BPC.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The PE shall:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Review the notice and administrative file for sufficiency and provide for review by other DOJ officials as considered appropriate;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If it is determined that action is warranted, give the contractor prompt notice of the proposed debarment or suspension, in accordance with FAR 9.406-3(c) or FAR 9.407-3(c);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Direct additional fact-finding as necessary when material facts are in dispute.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Notify the contractor of the final decision to debar or suspend, including a decision not to debar or suspend, in accordance with FAR 9.406-3(c) and FAR 9.407-3(c).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
