<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_215_78_T48_60638251123">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.215-78</ph> Travel approvals and reimbursement - Alternate 1.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111"
                  href="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111.dita#Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111">2015.209-70</xref>(d), the contracting officer shall insert the following clause in cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts which include a ceiling amount on travel. Requests for foreign travel must be submitted to the NRC 30 days in advance of the travel date.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Travel Approvals and Reimbursement - Alternate 1 (OCT 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Total expenditure for travel may not exceed __ * __ without the prior approval of the contracting officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) All foreign travel must be approved in advance by the NRC on NRC Form 445, Request for Approval of Official Foreign Travel, and must be in compliance with FAR 52.247-63 Preference for U.S. Flag Air Carriers. The contractor shall submit NRC Form 445 to the NRC no later than 30 days prior to the commencement of travel.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor will be reimbursed only for travel costs incurred that are directly related to this contract and are allowable subject to the limitations prescribed in FAR 31.205-46.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) It is the responsibility of the contractor to notify the contracting officer in accordance with the FAR Limitations of Cost clause of this contract when, at any time, the contractor learns that travel expenses will cause the contractor to exceed the travel ceiling amount identified in paragraph (a) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Reasonable travel costs for research and related activities performed at State and nonprofit institutions, in accordance with Section 12 of Pub. L. 100-679, must be charged in accordance with the contractor's institutional policy to the degree that the limitations of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance are not exceeded. Applicable guidance documents include OMB Circular A-87, Cost Principles for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-122, Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations; and OMB Circular A-21, Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">*To be incorporated into any resultant contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
