<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1823_7001_T48_6041919311">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1823.7001</ph> NASA solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Insert the clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_223_70_T48_60423441154"
                  href="Section_1852_223_70_T48_60423441154.dita#Section_1852_223_70_T48_60423441154">1852.223-70</xref>, Safety and Health Measures and Mishap Reporting, in solicitations and contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold when the work will be conducted completely or partly on federally-controlled facilities.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The clause prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section may be excluded with the approval of the installation official(s) responsible for matters of safety and occupational health.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_223_73_T48_60423441157"
                  href="Section_1852_223_73_T48_60423441157.dita#Section_1852_223_73_T48_60423441157">1852.223-73</xref>, Safety and Health Plan, in solicitations above the simplified acquisition threshold when the work will be conducted completely or partly on a Federally-controlled facility and the safety and health plan will be evaluated in source selection as approved by the source selection authority. This provision may be modified to identify specific information that is to be included in the plan. After receiving the concurrence of the center safety and occupational health official(s), the contracting officer shall incorporate the plan as an attachment into any resulting contract. The contracting officer shall insert the provision, with its Alternate I, in Invitations for Bid.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer shall insert FAR clause at 52.236-13 with its Alternate I in solicitations and contracts when the work will be conducted completely or partly on a Federally-controlled facility and a Safety and Health Plan will be reviewed after award as a contract deliverable. The contracting officer may modify the wording in paragraph (f) of Alternate I to specify:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) When the proposed plan is due and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Whether the contractor may commence work prior to approval of the plan; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) To what extent the contractor may commence work before the plan is approved.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The requiring activity, in consultation with the cognizant health and safety official(s), will identify the data deliverable requirements for the safety and health plan. After receiving the concurrence of the center safety and occupational health official(s), the contracting officer shall incorporate the plan as an attachment into the contract.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(e)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer shall insert the clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_223_75_T48_60423441159"
                  href="Section_1852_223_75_T48_60423441159.dita#Section_1852_223_75_T48_60423441159">1852.223-75</xref>, Major Breach of Safety or Security, in all solicitations and contracts with estimated values of $500,000 or more, unless waived at a level above the contracting officer with the concurrence of the project manager and the installation official(s) responsible for matters of security, export control, safety, and occupational health.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Insert the clause with its Alternate I if - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) The solicitation or contract is with an educational or other nonprofit institution and contains the termination clause at FAR 52.249-5; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The solicitation or contract is for commercial items and contains the clause at FAR 52.212-4.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) For contracts with estimated values below $500,000, use of the clause is optional.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_223_72_T48_60423441156"
                  href="Section_1852_223_72_T48_60423441156.dita#Section_1852_223_72_T48_60423441156">1852.223-72</xref>, Safety and Health (Short Form) in solicitations and contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold when work will be conducted completely or partly on Federally-controlled facilities and that do not contain the clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_223_73_T48_60423441157"
                  href="Section_1852_223_73_T48_60423441157.dita#Section_1852_223_73_T48_60423441157">1852.223-73</xref> or the FAR clause at 52.236-13 with its Alternate I.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
