<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2002_100_T48_606313111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2002.100</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Agency</i> means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Agency Head</i> or <i>Head of the Agency</i> means the NRC Executive Director for Operations, for the purposes specified in the regulations in this chapter and the FAR. This delegation does not extend to internal NRC requirements such as clearance levels and Commission papers which specify higher levels of authority.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Commission</i> means the NRC Commission of five members, or a quorum thereof, sitting as a body, as provided by Section 201 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5841).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Competition Advocate</i> means the individual appointed as such by the Agency Head as required by Public Law 98-369. The Director, Division of Contracts and Property Management, has been appointed the Competition Advocate for the NRC.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Head of the Contracting Activity</i> means the Director, Division of Contracts and Property Management.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Senior Procurement Executive</i> means the individual appointed as such by the Agency Head pursuant to Executive Order 12352. The Deputy Executive Director for Management Services, has been appointed the NRC Senior Procurement Executive.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Simplified acquisitions</i> means those acquisitions conducted using the methods, policies, and procedures of FAR part 13 for making purchases of supplies or services.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Task and Delivery Order Ombudsman</i> means the Director, Division of Contracts and Property Management, or designee pursuant to section 1004(a) of Pub. L. 103-355, the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
