<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1642_1205_T48_6021418113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1642.1205</ph> Agreement to recognize carrier's change of name.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) (FAR) 42.1205 shall be implemented as provided in this section. The Contracting Officer shall insert the following Agreement in all FEHBP contracts for use when the carrier changes its name and the Government's and contractor's rights and obligations remain unaffected.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Change-of-Name Agreement
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The (insert new Carrier name), a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of (insert State), and the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (Government), enter into this Agreement effective (insert date when the change of name became effective under applicable State law).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) THE PARTIES AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING FACTS:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Government, represented by various Contracting Officers of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), has entered into Contract Number _______ with the (insert old Carrier name). The term <i>contracts</i> as used in this Agreement means the contract cited in this paragraph and all other contracts and purchase orders and all modifications thereto made by the Government and the Contractor before the effective date of this Agreement (whether or not performance and payment have been completed and releases executed if the OPM or the Carrier has any remaining rights, duties, or obligations under these contracts and purchase orders).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The (insert old Carrier name), by an amendment to its certificate of incorporation, dated __________, 19__, has changed its corporate name to (insert new Carrier name).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) This amendment accomplishes a change of corporate name only and all rights and obligations of the Government and the Carrier under the contract are unaffected by this change.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Documentary evidence of this change of corporate name has been filed with the Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) IN CONSIDERATION OF THESE FACTS, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contract is amended by substituting the name “ (insert new Carrier name)” for the name “(insert old Carrier name)” wherever it appears in the contract; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Each party has executed this Agreement effective the day and year stated in paragraph (a)(2).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">_______________ Date _________
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Title 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP1-2">(Enter new Carrier name)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">By ____________ Date _________
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Title
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP1-2">(Corporate Seal) 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Certificate
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">I, _________________, certify that I am the Secretary of (insert new Carrier name); that __________________, who signed this Agreement for this corporation, was then (insert position held) of this corporation; and that this Agreement was duly signed for and on behalf of this corporation by authority of its governing body and within the scope of its corporate powers.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Witness my hand and the seal of this corporation this __ day of _____________ 19__.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">By
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP1-2">(Corporate Seal)</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of agreement)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Failure to submit the properly completed and signed Change-of-Name Agreement in a timely manner may be cause for termination of the contract by OPM in accordance with FEHBAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1652_249_70_T48_60215241122"
                  href="Section_1652_249_70_T48_60215241122.dita#Section_1652_249_70_T48_60215241122">1652.249-70</xref>.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
