<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_223_75_T48_60423441159">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.223-75</ph> Major breach of safety or security.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1823_7001_T48_6041919311"
                  href="Section_1823_7001_T48_6041919311.dita#Section_1823_7001_T48_6041919311">1823.7001</xref>(e)(1), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Major Breach of Safety or Security (FEB 2002)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Safety is the freedom from those conditions that can cause death, injury, occupational illness, damage to or loss of equipment or property, or damage to the environment. Safety is essential to NASA and is a material part of this contract. NASA's safety priority is to protect: 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The public; (2) astronauts and pilots; (3) the NASA workforce (including contractor employees working on NASA contracts); and (4) high-value equipment and property. A major breach of safety may constitute a breach of contract that entitles the Government to exercise any of its rights and remedies applicable to material parts of this contract, including termination for default. A major breach of safety must be related directly to the work on the contract. A major breach of safety is an act or omission of the Contractor that consists of an accident, incident, or exposure resulting in a fatality or mission failure; or in damage to equipment or property equal to or greater than $1 million; or in any “willful” or “repeat” violation cited by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or by a state agency operating under an OSHA approved plan. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Security is the condition of safeguarding against espionage, sabotage, crime (including computer crime), or attack. A major breach of security may constitute a breach of contract that entitles the Government to exercise any of its rights and remedies applicable to material parts of this contract, including termination for default. A major breach of security may occur on or off Government installations, but must be related directly to the work on the contract. A major breach of security is an act or omission by the Contractor that results in compromise of classified information, illegal technology transfer, workplace violence resulting in criminal conviction, sabotage, compromise or denial of information technology services, equipment or property damage from vandalism greater than $250,000, or theft greater than $250,000.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) In the event of a major breach of safety or security, the Contractor shall report the breach to the Contracting Officer. If directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall conduct its own investigation and report the results to the Government. The Contractor shall cooperate with the Government investigation, if conducted.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (FEB 2006) As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1823_7001_T48_6041919311"
                  href="Section_1823_7001_T48_6041919311.dita#Section_1823_7001_T48_6041919311">1823.7001</xref>(e)(2), substitute the following paragraphs (a) and (b) for paragraphs (a) and (b) of the basic clause:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Safety is the freedom from those conditions that can cause death, injury, occupational illness, damage to or loss of equipment or property, or damage to the environment. Safety is essential to NASA and is a material part of this contract. NASA's safety priority is to protect: 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The public; (2) astronauts and pilots; (3) the NASA workforce (including contractor employees working on NASA contracts); and (4) high-value equipment and property. A major breach of safety may constitute a breach of contract that entitles the Government to exercise any of its rights and remedies applicable to material parts of this contract, including termination. A major breach of safety must be related directly to the work on the contract. A major breach of safety is an act or omission of the Contractor that consists of an accident, incident, or exposure resulting in a fatality or mission failure; or in damage to equipment or property equal to or greater than $1 million; or in any “willful” or “repeat” violation cited by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or by a state agency operating under an OSHA approved plan.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Security is the condition of safeguarding against espionage, sabotage, crime (including computer crime), or attack. A major breach of security may constitute a breach of contract that entitles the Government to exercise any of its rights and remedies applicable to material parts of this contract, including termination. A major breach of security may occur on or off Government installations, but must be related directly to the work on the contract. A major breach of security is an act or omission by the Contractor that results in compromise of classified information, illegal technology transfer, workplace violence resulting in criminal conviction, sabotage, compromise or denial of information technology services, equipment or property damage from vandalism greater than $250,000, or theft greater than $250,000.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
