<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_216_72_T48_60423441121">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.216-72</ph> Award term.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1816_406_70_T48_60418153116"
                  href="Section_1816_406_70_T48_60418153116.dita#Section_1816_406_70_T48_60418153116">1816.406-70</xref>(g), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Award Term (AUG 2017)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Based on overall Contractor performance as evaluated in accordance with the Award Term Plan, the Contracting Officer may extend the contract for the number and duration of award terms as set forth in the Award Term Plan.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contracting Officer will execute any earned award term period(s) through a unilateral contract modification. All contract provisions continue to apply throughout the contract period of performance or ordering period, including any award term period(s).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Government will evaluate offerors for award purposes by adding the total price for all options and award terms to the price for the basic requirement. This evaluation will not obligate the Government to exercise any options or award term periods.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Award Term Plan is attached in Section J. The Award Term Plan provides the methodology and schedule for evaluating Contractor performance, determining eligibility for an award term, and, together with Agency need for the contract and availability of funding, serves as the basis for award term decisions. The Contracting Officer may unilaterally revise the Award Term Plan. Any changes to the Award Term Plan will be in writing and incorporated into the contract through a unilateral modification citing this clause prior to the commencement of any evaluation period. The Contracting Officer will consult with the Contractor prior to the issuance of a revised Award Term Plan; however, the Contractor's consent is not required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The award term evaluation(s) will be completed in accordance with the schedule in the Award Term Plan. The Contractor will be notified of the results and its eligibility to be considered for the respective award term no later than 120 days after the evaluation period set forth in the Award Term Plan. The Contractor may request a review of an award term evaluation which has resulted in the Contractor not earning the award term. The request shall be submitted in writing to the Contracting Officer within 15 days after notification of the results of the evaluation.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Government has the unilateral right not to grant or to cancel award term periods and the associated Award Term Plan if - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The Contractor has failed to achieve the required performance measures for the corresponding evaluation period;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) After earning an award term, the Contractor fails to earn an award term in any succeeding year of contract performance, the Contracting Officer may cancel any award terms that the Contractor has earned, but that have not begun;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The Contracting Officer has notified the Contractor that the Government no longer has a need for the award term period before the time an award term period is to begin;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The Contractor represented that it was a small business concern prior to award of this contract, the contract was set-aside for small businesses, and the Contractor rerepresents in accordance with FAR clause 52.219-28, Post-Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation, that it is no longer a small business; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) The Contracting Officer has notified the Contractor that funds are not available for the award term.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) When an award term period is not granted or cancelled, any - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Prior award term periods for which the contractor remains otherwise eligible are unaffected, except as provided in paragraph (g) of this clause; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Subsequent award term periods are also cancelled.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) Cancellation of an award term period that has not yet started for any of the reasons set forth in paragraph (f) of this clause shall not be considered either a termination for convenience or termination for default, and shall not entitle the Contractor to any termination settlement or any other compensation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) Cancellation of an award term period that has not yet commenced for any of the reasons set forth in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this clause shall not be considered either a termination for convenience or termination for default, and shall not entitle the Contractor to any termination settlement or any other compensation. If the award term is cancelled, a unilateral modification will cite this clause as the authority.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) Funds are not presently available for any award term. The Government's obligation under any award term is contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds from which payment can be made. No legal liability on the part of the Government for any award term payment may arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for an award term and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability, to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
