<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_216_76_T48_60423441125">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.216-76</ph> Award fee for service contracts.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1816_406_70_T48_60418153116"
                  href="Section_1816_406_70_T48_60418153116.dita#Section_1816_406_70_T48_60418153116">1816.406-70</xref>(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Award Fee for Service Contracts (JUN 2018)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor can earn award fee from a minimum of zero dollars to the maximum stated in NASA FAR Supplement clause <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_216_85_T48_60423441132"
                  href="Section_1852_216_85_T48_60423441132.dita#Section_1852_216_85_T48_60423441132">1852.216-85</xref>, “Estimated Cost and Award Fee” in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Beginning 6* months after the effective date of this contract, the Government shall evaluate the Contractor's performance every 6* months to determine the amount of award fee earned by the contractor during the period. The Contractor may submit a self-evaluation of performance for each evaluation period under consideration. These self-evaluations will be considered by the Government in its evaluation. The Government's Fee Determination Official (FDO) will determine the award fee amounts based on the Contractor's performance in accordance with [identify performance evaluation plan]. The plan may be revised unilaterally by the Government prior to the beginning of any rating period to redirect emphasis.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Government will advise the Contractor in writing of the evaluation results. The [insert payment office] will make payment based on [Insert method of authorizing award fee payment].
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contracting Officer may direct the withholding of earned award fee payments until a reserve is set aside in an amount that the Contracting Officer considers necessary to protect the Government's interest relative to an orderly and timely closeout of the contract. This reserve shall not exceed 15 percent of the contract's total potential award fee or $100,000, whichever is less.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The amount of award fee which can be awarded in each evaluation period is limited to the amounts set forth at [identify location of award fee amounts]. Award fee which is not earned in an evaluation period cannot be reallocated to future evaluation periods.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Provisional award fee payments [insert “will” or “will not”, as applicable] be made under this contract pending the determination of the amount of fee earned for an evaluation period. If applicable, provisional award fee payments will be made to the Contractor on a [insert the frequency of provisional payments (not more often than monthly)] basis. The total amount of award fee available in an evaluation period that will be provisionally paid is the lesser of [Insert a percent not to exceed 80 percent] or the prior period's evaluation score.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Provisional award fee payments will be superseded by the final award fee evaluation for that period. If provisional payments exceed the final evaluation score, the Contractor will either credit the next payment voucher for the amount of such overpayment or refund the difference to the Government, as directed by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) If the Contracting Officer determines that the Contractor will not achieve a level of performance commensurate with the provisional rate, payment of provisional award fee will be discontinued or reduced in such amounts as the Contracting Officer deems appropriate. The Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor in writing if it is determined that such discontinuance or reduction is appropriate.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Provisional award fee payments [insert “will” or “will not”, as appropriate] be made prior to the first award fee determination by the Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) Award fee determinations are unilateral decisions made solely at the discretion of the Government.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">* [A period of time greater or lesser than 6 months may be substituted in accordance with <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1816_405_272_T48_6041815319"
                  href="Section_1816_405_272_T48_6041815319.dita#Section_1816_405_272_T48_6041815319">1816.405-272</xref>(a).]</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
