<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1845_301_71_T48_6042238211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1845.301-71</ph> Use of Government property for commercial work.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="XREF">Link to an amendment published at 85 FR 64070, Oct. 9, 2020.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The coverage at FAR 45.3 applies to a contractor's commercial (any non-Government) use of any NASA equipment.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Center Procurement Officer is the approval authority for non-Government use of equipment exceeding 25 percent.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The percentage of Government and non-Government use shall be computed on the basis of time available for use. For this purpose, the contractor's normal work schedule, as represented by scheduled production shift hours, shall be used. All equipment having a unit acquisition cost of less than $500,000 at any single location may be averaged over a quarterly period. Equipment having a unit acquisition cost of $500,000 or more shall be considered on an item-by-item basis.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Approvals for non-Government use, less than 25 percent, may not exceed 1 year. Approval for non-Government use in excess of 25 percent shall not exceed 3 months.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Requests for the approval shall be submitted to the Center Procurement Officer at least 6 weeks in advance of the projected use and shall include - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) The number of equipment items involved and their total acquisition cost; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) An itemized listing of equipment having an acquisition cost of $500,000 or more, showing for each item the nomenclature, year of manufacture, and acquisition cost.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
