<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2802_101_T48_6011603111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2802.101</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Throughout this chapter, the following words and terms are used as defined in this subpart unless the context in which they appear clearly requires a different meaning, or a different definition is prescribed for a particular part or portion of a part.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Bureaus</i> means contracting activities. (See <i>contracting activity</i> in this subpart.)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Bureau procurement chief</i> means that supervisory official who is directly responsible for supervising, managing and directing all contracting offices of the bureau.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Chief of the contracting office</i> means that supervisory official who is directly responsible for supervising, managing and directing a contracting office.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Contracting activity</i> means a component within the Department which has been delegated procurement authority to manage contracting functions associated with its mission. See <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2801_601_T48_6011602511"
                  href="Section_2801_601_T48_6011602511.dita#Section_2801_601_T48_6011602511">2801.601</xref>(a).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>DOJ</i> means the Department of Justice.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>HCA</i> means head of the contracting activity i.e. those officials identified in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2801_601_T48_6011602511"
                  href="Section_2801_601_T48_6011602511.dita#Section_2801_601_T48_6011602511">2801.601</xref>(a) having responsibility for supervising, managing, and directing the operations of the contracting activities.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>JAR</i> means the Department of Justice Acquisition Regulations in 48 CFR chapter 28.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>JMD</i> means the Justice Management Division.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>OBDs</i> means the offices, boards, and divisions within the Justice Department.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(j) <i>PE</i> means the Procurement Executive for the Department of Justice.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
