<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_215_70_T48_60638251115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.215-70</ph> Key personnel.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111"
                  href="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111.dita#Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111">2015.209-70</xref>(a)(1), the contracting officer shall insert in solicitations and contracts the following clause as applicable to the requirement:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Key Personnel (JAN 1993)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following individuals are considered to be essential to the successful performance of the work hereunder: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">*
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">The contractor agrees that personnel may not be removed from the contract work or replaced without compliance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If one or more of the key personnel, for whatever reason, becomes, or is expected to become, unavailable for work under this contract for a continuous period exceeding 30 work days, or is expected to devote substantially less effort to the work than indicated in the proposal or initially anticipated, the contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer and shall, subject to the con currence of the contracting officer, promptly replace the personnel with personnel of at least substantially equal ability and qualifications.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Each request for approval of substitutions must be in writing and contain a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitutions. The request must also contain a complete resume for the proposed substitute and other information requested or needed by the contracting officer to evaluate the proposed substitution. The contracting officer and the project officer shall evaluate the contractor's request and the contracting officer shall promptly notify the contractor of his or her decision in writing.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If the contracting officer determines that suitable and timely replacement of key personnel who have been reassigned, terminated, or have otherwise become unavailable for the contract work is not reasonably forthcoming, or that the resultant reduction of productive effort would be so substantial as to impair the successful completion of the contract or the service order, the contract may be terminated by the contracting officer for default or for the convenience of the Government, as appropriate. If the contracting officer finds the contractor at fault for the condition, the contract price or fixed fee may be equitably adjusted downward to compensate the Government for any resultant delay, loss, or damage. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">*To be incorporated into any resultant contract</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
