<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_908_7101_2_T48_503199314">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">908.7101-2</ph> Consolidated acquisition of new vehicles by General Services Administration.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) New vehicles shall be procured in accordance with Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR) 41 CFR 101-26.501, and 41 CFR 102-1 through 102-220, and Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (DOE-PMR) 41 CFR 109-26.501. Orders for all motor vehicles must be placed utilizing GSA's online vehicle purchasing system (AutoChoice).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Orders for all motor vehicles shall be submitted utilizing GSA's on-line system (Auto Choice), in accordance with FPMR 41 CFR 101-26.501. Requisitions for sedans, station wagons, and certain light trucks as specified by GSA, should contain a certification that the acquisition is in conformance with Pub. L. 94-163, and Executive Order 12003 and 12375 and subsequent implementations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The schedule of dates for submission of orders is contained in FPMR 41 CFR 101-26.501-4. The Heads of Contracting Activities shall consolidate and submit their requirements for passenger automobiles early in the fiscal year. Requisitions for sedans, station wagons and certain types of light trucks shall be submitted through Headquarters as outlined in 908.7101-6. Requisitions for all other types of vehicles shall be submitted directly to GSA.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
