<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_1504_5_T48_50326417119">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.1504-5</ph> Solicitation provision and contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 970.5215-1, Total Available Fee: Base Fee Amount and Performance Fee Amount, in management and operating contracts, and other contracts determined by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee, that include cost-plus-award-fee arrangements. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate I when the award fee cycle consists of two or more evaluation periods. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate II when the award fee cycle consists of one evaluation period. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate III when the DOE Operations/Field Office Manager, or designee, requires the contractor to submit a self-assessment. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate IV when the DOE Operations/Field Office Manager, or designee, permits the contractor to submit a self-assessment at the contractor's option. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 970.5215-3, Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives - Facility Management Contracts, in all DOE management and operating contracts and other contracts determined by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate I in contracts that do not contain the clause at 952.204-2, Security. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer shall include the clause with its Alternate II in contracts that are awarded on a cost-plus-award-fee basis. The contracting officer should consider including the clause with its Alternate II in contracts that are awarded on a multiple fee basis if the cost-plus-award-fee portion of the contract is significant. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 970.5215-4, Cost Reduction, in management and operating contracts, and other contracts determined by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee, if cost savings programs are contemplated. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contracting officer shall insert the provision at 970.5215-5, Limitation on Fee, in solicitations for management and operating contracts, and other contracts determined by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee. 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
