<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_204_75_T48_50325402110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.204-75</ph> Public affairs.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 904.7201, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Public Affairs (DEC 2000) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor must cooperate with the Department in releasing unclassified information to the public and news media regarding DOE policies, programs, and activities relating to its effort under the contract. The responsibilities under this clause must be accomplished through coordination with the Contracting Officer and appropriate DOE public affairs personnel in accordance with procedures defined by the Contracting Officer. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor is responsible for the development, planning, and coordination of proactive approaches for the timely dissemination of unclassified information regarding DOE activities onsite and offsite, including, but not limited to, operations and programs. Proactive public affairs programs may utilize a variety of communication media, including public workshops, meetings or hearings, open houses, newsletters, press releases, conferences, audio/visual presentations, speeches, forums, tours, and other appropriate stakeholder interactions. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor's internal procedures must ensure that all releases of information to the public and news media are coordinated through, and approved by, a management official at an appropriate level within the Contractor's organization. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor must comply with DOE procedures for obtaining advance clearances on oral, written, and audio/visual informational material prepared for public dissemination or use. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Unless prohibited by law, and in accordance with procedures defined by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor must notify the Contracting Officer and appropriate DOE public affairs personnel of communications or contacts with Members of Congress relating to the effort performed under the contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) In accordance with procedures defined by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor must notify the Contracting Officer and appropriate DOE public affairs personnel of activities or situations that may attract regional or national news media attention and of non-routine inquiries from national news media relating to the effort performed under the contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) In releases of information to the public and news media, the Contractor must fully and accurately identify the Contractor's relationship to the Department and fully and accurately credit the Department for its role in funding programs and projects resulting in scientific, technical, and other achievements.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
