<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_922_803_T48_5032119313">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">922.803</ph> Responsibilities.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Director, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs of the Department of Labor has been delegated authority and responsibility for carrying out the requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended. In conjunction with the delegation, contracting officers shall be familiar with existing and any updated provisions of 41 CFR Ch. 60, and assist the Department of Labor in its compliance responsibilities. DOE contracting officers will include the applicable Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)) and Affirmative Action Program (AAP) requirements in their solicitations and obtain the applicable reports of compliance from the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) (when required) prior to awarding of contracts. The provisions of 41 CFR Ch. 60, are applicable to all DOE contracts.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The OFCCP requires that requests for pre-award clearances be directed to the OFCCP Regional Office in which the contractor's facility is (to be) located. If OFCCP finds the contractor in compliance, the contracting officer will be notified. Findings of non-compliance can be communicated to the contracting officer by the OFCCP or Headquarters Director or his designee. The appropriate Regional Office will provide the appropriate contact point in cases of non-compliance. The Director, Office of Civil Rights (DOE HQ), when requested, will provide assistance to contracting officers resolving non-compliance issues by providing assistance in obtaining a final decision from the OFCCP.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
