<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_908_7121_T48_5031993128">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">908.7121</ph> Special materials.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">This section covers the purchase of materials peculiar to the DOE program. While purchases of these materials may be unclassified, the specific quantities, destination or use may be classified (see appropriate sections of the Classification Guide). Contracting officers shall require authorized contractors to obtain the special materials identified in the following subsections in accordance with the following procedures:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Heavy water.</i> The Senior Program Official or designee controls the acquisition and production of heavy water for a given program. Request for orders shall be placed directly with the cognizant Senior Program Official or designee.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Precious metals.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			NNSA, Y-12 National Security Complex in Oak Ridge, TN is responsible for maintaining the DOE supply of precious metals. These metals are platinum, palladium, iridium, osmium, rhodium, ruthenium, gold and silver. The NNSA Y-12 National Security Complex has assigned management of these precious metals to its Management and Operating (M&amp;O) contractor. DOE and NNSA offices and authorized contractors shall coordinate with the Y-12 M&amp;O contractor regarding the availability of these metals prior to purchasing in the open market.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) For contractor inventory containing precious metals or possessing precious metals excess, see 945.604-1 for contractor identification and reporting.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Lithium.</i> Lithium is available from Y-12 at no cost other than normal packing, handling, and shipping charges from Oak Ridge. The excess quantities at Y-12 are the first source of supply prior to procurement of lithium compounds from any other source.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
