<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_5227_1_T48_503264131129">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.5227-1</ph> Rights in data-facilities.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 970.2704-3(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Rights in Data - Facilities (DEC 2000)
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Computer data bases,</i> as used in this clause, means a collection of data in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Computer software,</i> as used in this clause, means 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			computer programs which are data comprising a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations and (ii) data comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled. The term does not include computer data bases.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Data,</i> as used in this clause, means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. The term “data” does not include data incidental to the administration of this contract, such as financial, administrative, cost and pricing, or management information.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Limited rights data,</i> as used in this clause, means data, other than computer software, developed at private expense that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged. The Government's rights to use, duplicate, or disclose limited rights data are as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of subparagraph (e) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Restricted computer software,</i> as used in this clause, means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret; is commercial or financial and is confidential or privileged; or is published copyrighted computer software, including minor modifications of any such computer software. The Government's rights to use, duplicate, or disclose restricted computer software are as set forth in the Restricted Rights Notice of paragraph (f) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Technical data,</i> as used in this clause, means recorded data, regardless of form or characteristic, that are of a scientific or technical nature. Technical data does not include computer software, but does include manuals and instructional materials and technical data formatted as a computer data base.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) <i>Unlimited rights,</i> as used in this clause, means the right of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, including by electronic means, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner, including by electronic means, and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or permit others to do so.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Allocation of Rights.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Government shall have:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Ownership of all technical data and computer software first produced in the performance of this Contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Unlimited rights in technical data and computer software specifically used in the performance of this Contract, except as provided herein regarding copyright, limited rights data, or restricted computer software, or except for other data specifically protected by statute for a period of time or, where, approved by DOE, appropriate instances of the DOE Strategic Partnership Projects Program; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The right to inspect technical data and computer software first produced or specifically used in the performance of this Contract at all reasonable times. The Contractor shall make available all necessary facilities to allow DOE personnel to perform such inspection; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The right to have all technical data and computer software first produced or specifically used in the performance of this Contract delivered to the Government or otherwise disposed of by the Contractor, either as the contracting officer may from time to time direct during the progress of the work or in any event as the contracting officer shall direct upon completion or termination of this Contract. The Contractor agrees to leave a copy of such data at the facility or plant to which such data relate, and to make available for access or to deliver to the Government such data upon request by the contracting officer. If such data are limited rights data or restricted computer software, the rights of the Government in such data shall be governed solely by the provisions of paragraph (e) of this clause (“Rights in Limited Rights Data”) or paragraph (f) of this clause (“Rights in Restricted Computer Software”); and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) The right to remove, cancel, correct, or ignore any markings not authorized by the terms of this Contract on any data furnished hereunder if, in response to a written inquiry by DOE concerning the propriety of the markings, the Contractor fails to respond thereto within 60 days or fails to substantiate the propriety of the markings. In either case DOE will notify the Contractor of the action taken. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor shall have: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The right to withhold limited rights data and restricted computer software unless otherwise provided in accordance with the provisions of this clause; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The right to use for its private purposes, subject to patent, security or other provisions of this Contract, data it first produces in the performance of this Contract, except for data in DOE's Uranium Enrichment Technology, including diffusion, centrifuge, and atomic vapor laser isotope separation, provided the data requirements of this Contract have been met as of the date of the private use of such data. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Contractor agrees that for limited rights data or restricted computer software or other technical, business or financial data in the form of recorded information which it receives from, or is given access to by, DOE or a third party, including a DOE Contractor or subcontractor, and for technical data or computer software it first produces under this Contract which is authorized to be marked by DOE, the Contractor shall treat such data in accordance with any restrictive legend contained thereon. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Copyrighted Material.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall not, without prior written authorization of the Patent Counsel, assert copyright in any technical data or computer software first produced in the performance of this contract. To the extent such authorization is granted, the Government reserves for itself and others acting on its behalf, a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, world-wide license for Governmental purposes to publish, distribute, translate, duplicate, exhibit, and perform any such data copyrighted by the Contractor. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor agrees not to include in the technical data or computer software delivered under the contract any material copyrighted by the Contractor and not to knowingly include any material copyrighted by others without first granting or obtaining at no cost a license therein for the benefit of the Government of the same scope as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause. If the Contractor believes that such copyrighted material for which the license cannot be obtained must be included in the technical data or computer software to be delivered, rather than merely incorporated therein by reference, the Contractor shall obtain the written authorization of the contracting officer to include such material in the technical data or computer software prior to its delivery. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Subcontracting.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Unless otherwise directed by the contracting officer, the Contractor agrees to use in subcontracts in which technical data or computer software is expected to be produced or in subcontracts for supplies that contain a requirement for production or delivery of data in accordance with the policy and procedures of 48 CFR Subpart 27.4 as supplemented by 48 CFR 927.401 through 927.409, the clause entitled, “Rights in Data-General” at 48 CFR 52.227-14 modified in accordance with 927.409(a) and including Alternate V. Alternates II through IV of that clause may be included as appropriate with the prior approval of DOE Patent Counsel, and the Contractor shall not acquire rights in a subcontractor's limited rights data or restricted computer software, except through the use of Alternates II or III, respectively, without the prior approval of DOE Patent Counsel. The clause at 48 CFR 52.227-16, Additional Data Requirements, shall be included in subcontracts in accordance with DEAR 927.409(h). The contractor shall use instead the Rights in Data-Facilities clause at 48 CFR 970.5227-1 in subcontracts, including subcontracts for related support services, involving the design or operation of any plants or facilities or specially designed equipment for such plants or facilities that are managed or operated under its contract with DOE. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) It is the responsibility of the Contractor to obtain from its subcontractors technical data and computer software and rights therein, on behalf of the Government, necessary to fulfill the Contractor's obligations to the Government with respect to such data. In the event of refusal by a subcontractor to accept a clause affording the Government such rights, the Contractor shall: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Promptly submit written notice to the contracting officer setting forth reasons or the subcontractor's refusal and other pertinent information which may expedite disposition of the matter, and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Not proceed with the subcontract without the written authorization of the contracting officer. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Neither the Contractor nor higher-tier subcontractors shall use their power to award subcontracts as economic leverage to acquire rights in a subcontractor's limited rights data or restricted computer software for their private use. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Rights in Limited Rights Data.</i> Except as may be otherwise specified in this Contract as data which are not subject to this paragraph, the Contractor agrees to and does hereby grant to the Government an irrevocable, nonexclusive, paid-up license by or for the Government, in any limited rights data of the Contractor specifically used in the performance of this Contract, provided, however, that to the extent that any limited rights data when furnished or delivered is specifically identified by the Contractor at the time of initial delivery to the Government or a representative of the Government, such data shall not be used within or outside the Government except as provided in the “Limited Rights Notice” set forth. All such limited rights data shall be marked with the following “Limited Rights Notice”: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Limited Rights Notice
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">These data contain “limited rights data,” furnished under Contract No. ________ with the United States Department of Energy which may be duplicated and used by the Government with the express limitations that the “limited rights data” may not be disclosed outside the Government or be used for purposes of manufacture without prior permission of the Contractor, except that further disclosure or use may be made solely for the following purposes: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Use (except for manufacture) by support services contractors within the scope of their contracts; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) This “limited rights data” may be disclosed for evaluation purposes under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) This “limited rights data” may be disclosed to other contractors participating in the Government's program of which this Contract is a part for information or use (except for manufacture) in connection with the work performed under their contracts and under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) This “limited rights data” may be used by the Government or others on its behalf for emergency repair or overhaul work under the restriction that the “limited rights data” be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Release to a foreign government, or instrumentality thereof, as the interests of the United States Government may require, for information or evaluation, or for emergency repair or overhaul work by such government. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data in whole or in part. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">(End of notice) 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Rights in restricted computer software.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Except as may be otherwise specified in this Contract as data which are not subject to this paragraph, the Contractor agrees to and does hereby grant to the Government an irrevocable, nonexclusive, paid-up, license by or for the Government, in any restricted computer software of the Contractor specifically used in the performance of this Contract, provided, however, that to the extent that any restricted computer software when furnished or delivered is specifically identified by the Contractor at the time of initial delivery to the Government or a representative of the Government, such data shall not be used within or outside the Government except as provided in the “Restricted Rights Notice” set forth below. All such restricted computer software shall be marked with the following “Restricted Rights Notice”: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Restricted Rights Notice-Long Form 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This computer software is submitted with restricted rights under Department of Energy Contract No. _______. It may not be used, reproduced, or disclosed by the Government except as provided in paragraph (b) of this notice. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) This computer software may be: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Used or copied for use in or with the computer or computers for which it was acquired, including use at any Government installation to which such computer or computers may be transferred; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Used, copied for use, in a backup or replacement computer if any computer for which it was acquired is inoperative or is replaced; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Reproduced for safekeeping (archives) or backup purposes; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Modified, adapted, or combined with other computer software, provided that only the portions of the derivative software consisting of the restricted computer software are to be made subject to the same restricted rights; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Disclosed to and reproduced for use by contractors under a service contract (of the type defined in 48 CFR 37.101) in accordance with subparagraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this Notice, provided the Government makes such disclosure or reproduction subject to these restricted rights. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if this computer software has been published under copyright, it is licensed to the Government, without disclosure prohibitions, with the rights set forth in the restricted rights notice above. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this computer software, in whole or in part. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">(End of notice) 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(2) Where it is impractical to include the Restricted Rights Notice on restricted computer software, the following short-form Notice may be used. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Restricted Rights Notice - Short Form 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Use, reproduction, or disclosure is subject to restrictions set forth in the Long Form Notice of DOE Contract No. _______ with (name of Contractor). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">(End of notice) 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(3) If the software is embedded, or if it is commercially impractical to mark it with human readable text, then the symbol R and the clause date (mo/yr), in brackets or a box, a [R-mo/yr], may be used. This will be read to mean restricted computer software, subject to the rights of the Government as described in the Long Form Notice, in effect as of the date indicated next to the symbol. The symbol shall not be used to mark human readable material. In the event this Contract contains any variation to the rights in the Long Form Notice, then the contract number must also be cited. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(4) If restricted computer software is delivered with the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401, the software will be presumed to be published copyrighted computer software licensed to the Government without disclosure prohibitions and with unlimited rights, unless the Contractor includes the following statement with such copyright notice “Unpublished-rights reserved under the Copyright Laws of the United States.” 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Relationship to patents.</i> Nothing contained in this clause creates or is intended to imply a license to the Government in any patent or is intended to be construed as affecting the scope of any licenses or other rights otherwise granted to the Government under any patent.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (DEC 2000). As prescribed in 48 CFR 970.2704-3(a), where access to Category C-24 restricted data is contemplated in the performance of a contract the contracting officer shall insert the phrase “and except Restricted Data in category C-24, 10 CFR part 725, in which DOE has reserved the right to receive reasonable compensation for the use of its inventions and discoveries, including related data and technology” after “laser isotope separation” and before the comma in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of the clause at 48 CFR 970.5227-1, Rights in Data - Facilities, as appropriate. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
