<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_5215_3_T48_503264131114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.5215-3</ph> Conditional payment of fee, profit, and other incentives - facility management contracts</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 970.1504-5(b)(1), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives - Facility Management Contracts (AUG 2009)
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The payment of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings under this contract is dependent upon -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The Contractor's or Contractor employees' compliance with the terms and conditions of this contract relating to environment, safety and health (ES&amp;H), which includes worker safety and health (WS&amp;H), including performance under an approved Integrated Safety Management System (ISMS); and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The Contractor's or Contractor employees' compliance with the terms and conditions of this contract relating to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The ES&amp;H performance requirements of this contract are set forth in its ES&amp;H terms and conditions, including the DOE approved contractor ISMS or similar document. Financial incentives for timely mission accomplishment or cost effectiveness shall never compromise or impede full and effective implementation of the ISMS and full ES&amp;H compliance. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The performance requirements of this contract relating to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information are set forth in the clauses of this contract entitled, “Security” and “Laws, Regulations, and DOE Directives,” as well as in other terms and conditions. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) If the Contractor does not meet the performance requirements of this contract relating to ES&amp;H or to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information during any performance evaluation period established under the contract pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled, “Total Available Fee: Base Fee Amount and Performance Fee Amount,” otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit or share of cost savings may be unilaterally reduced by the contracting officer. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Reduction amount.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The amount of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings that may be unilaterally reduced will be determined by the severity of the performance failure pursuant to the degrees specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this clause. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If a reduction of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings is warranted, unless mitigating factors apply, such reduction shall not be less than 26 percent nor greater than 100 percent of the amount of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or the Contractor's share of cost savings for a first degree performance failure, not less than 11 percent nor greater than 25 percent for a second degree performance failure, and up to 10 percent for a third degree performance failure. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) In determining the amount of the reduction and the applicability of mitigating factors, the contracting officer must consider the Contractor's overall performance in meeting the ES&amp;H or security requirements of the contract. Such consideration must include performance against any site specific performance criteria/requirements that provide additional definition, guidance for the amount of reduction, or guidance for the applicability of mitigating factors. In all cases, the contracting officer must consider mitigating factors that may warrant a reduction below the applicable range (see 48 CFR 970.1504-1-2). The mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, the following ((v), (vi), (vii) and (viii) apply to ES&amp;H only). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Degree of control the Contractor had over the event or incident. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Efforts the Contractor had made to anticipate and mitigate the possibility of the event in advance. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Contractor self-identification and response to the event to mitigate impacts and recurrence. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) General status (trend and absolute performance) of: ES&amp;H and compliance in related areas; or of safeguarding Restricted Data and other classified information and compliance in related areas. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Contractor demonstration to the Contracting Officer's satisfaction that the principles of industrial ES&amp;H standards are routinely practiced (e.g., Voluntary Protection Program, ISO 14000). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Event caused by “Good Samaritan” act by the Contractor (e.g., offsite emergency response). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Contractor demonstration that a performance measurement system is routinely used to improve and maintain ES&amp;H performance (including effective resource allocation) and to support DOE corporate decision-making (e.g., policy, ES&amp;H programs). * * * 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(viii) Contractor demonstration that an Operating Experience and Feedback Program is functioning that demonstrably affects continuous improvement in ES&amp;H by use of lessons-learned and best practices inter- and intra-DOE sites. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(4)
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The amount of fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings that is otherwise earned by a contractor during an evaluation period may be reduced in accordance with this clause if it is determined that a performance failure warranting a reduction under this clause occurs within the evaluation period. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The amount of reduction under this clause, in combination with any reduction made under any other clause in the contract, shall not exceed the amount of fee, fixed fee, profit, or the Contractor's share of cost savings that is otherwise earned during the evaluation period. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) For the purposes of this clause, earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings for the evaluation period shall mean the amount determined by the Contracting Officer or fee determination official as otherwise payable based on the Contractor's performance during the evaluation period. Where the contract provides for financial incentives that extend beyond a single evaluation period, this amount shall also include: any provisional amounts determined otherwise payable in the evaluation period; and, if provisional payments are not provided for, the allocable amount of any incentive determined otherwise payable at the conclusion of a subsequent evaluation period. The allocable amount shall be the total amount of the earned incentive divided by the number of evaluation periods over which it was earned.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The Government will effect the reduction as soon as practicable after the end of the evaluation period in which the performance failure occurs. If the Government is not aware of the failure, it will effect the reduction as soon as practical after becoming aware. For any portion of the reduction requiring an allocation the Government will effect the reduction at the end of the evaluation period in which it determines the total amount earned under the incentive. If at any time a reduction causes the sum of the payments the Contractor has received for fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings to exceed the sum of fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings the Contractor has earned (provisionally or otherwise), the Contractor shall immediately return the excess to the Government. (What the Contractor “has earned” reflects any reduction made under this or any other clause of the contract.) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) At the end of the contract -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(A) The Government will pay the Contractor the amount by which the sum of fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings the Contractor has earned exceeds the sum of the payments the Contractor has received; or 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(B) The Contractor shall return to the Government the amount by which the sum of the payments the Contractor has received exceeds the sum of fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings the Contractor has earned. (What the Contractor “has earned” reflects any reduction made under this or any other clause of the contract.) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Environment, Safety and Health (ES&amp;H).</i> Performance failures occur if the Contractor does not comply with the contract's ES&amp;H terms and conditions, including the DOE approved Contractor ISMS. The degrees of performance failure under which reductions of earned or fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings will be determined are: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>First Degree:</i> Performance failures that are most adverse to ES&amp;H. Failure to develop and obtain required DOE approval of an ISMS is considered first degree. The Government will perform necessary review of the ISMS in a timely manner and will not unreasonably withhold approval of the Contractor's ISMS. The following performance failures or performance failures of similar import will be considered first degree. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Type A accident (defined in DOE Order 225.1B, or successor version). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Two Second Degree performance failures during an evaluation period. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Second Degree:</i> Performance failures that are significantly adverse to ES&amp;H. They include failures to comply with an approved ISMS that result in an actual injury, exposure, or exceedence that occurred or nearly occurred but had minor practical long-term health consequences. They also include breakdowns of the Safety Management System. The following performance failures or performance failures of similar import will be considered second degree: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Type B accident (defined in DOE Order 225.1B, or successor version). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Non-compliance with an approved ISMS that results in a near miss of a Type A or B accident. A near miss is a situation in which an inappropriate action occurs, or a necessary action is omitted, but does not result in an adverse effect. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Failure to mitigate or notify DOE of an imminent danger situation after discovery, where such notification is a requirement of the contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Third Degree:</i> Performance failures that reflect a lack of focus on improving ES&amp;H. They include failures to comply with an approved ISMS that result in potential breakdown of the System. The following performance failures or performance failures of similar import will be considered third degree: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Failure to implement effective corrective actions to address deficiencies/non-compliances documented through: external (e.g., Federal) oversight and/or reported per DOE Order 232.1-2 requirements; or internal oversight of DOE Order 440.1A requirements. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Multiple similar non-compliances identified by external (e.g., Federal) oversight that in aggregate indicate a significant programmatic breakdown. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Non-compliances that either have, or may have, significant negative impacts to the worker, the public, or the environment or that indicate a significant programmatic breakdown. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Failure to notify DOE upon discovery of events or conditions where notification is required by the terms and conditions of the contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Safeguarding restricted data and other classified information.</i> Performance failures occur if the Contractor does not comply with the terms and conditions of this contract relating to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. The degrees of performance failure under which reductions of fee, profit, or share of cost savings will be determined are as follows: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>First Degree:</i> Performance failures that have been determined, in accordance with applicable law, DOE regulation, or directive, to have resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, exceptionally grave damage to the national security. The following are examples of performance failures or performance failures of similar import that will be considered first degree: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating a risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in a Special Access Program (SAP), information identified as sensitive compartmented information (SCI), or high risk nuclear weapons-related data. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Contractor actions that result in a breakdown of the safeguards and security management system that can reasonably be expected to result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data, or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in a SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Failure to promptly report the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data, or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in a SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Failure to timely implement corrective actions stemming from the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in a SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Second Degree:</i> Performance failures that have been determined, in accordance with applicable law, DOE regulation, or directive, to have actually resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, serious damage to the national security. The following are examples of performance failures or performance failures of similar import that will be considered second degree: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Secret. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Contractor actions that result in a breakdown of the safeguards and security management system that can reasonably be expected to result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data, or other information classified as Secret. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Failure to promptly report the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Restricted Data or other classified information regardless of classification (except for information covered by paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this clause). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Failure to timely implement corrective actions stemming from the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other classified information classified as Secret. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Third Degree:</i> Performance failures that have been determined, in accordance with applicable law, regulation, or DOE directive, to have actually resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, undue risk to the common defense and security. In addition, this category includes performance failures that result from a lack of Contractor management and/or employee attention to the proper safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. These performance failures may be indicators of future, more severe performance failures and/or conditions, and if identified and corrected early would prevent serious incidents. The following are examples of performance failures or performance failures of similar import that will be considered third degree: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Restricted Data or other information classified as Confidential. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Failure to promptly report alleged or suspected violations of laws, regulations, or directives pertaining to the safeguarding of Restricted Data or other classified information. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Failure to identify or timely execute corrective actions to mitigate or eliminate identified vulnerabilities and reduce residual risk relating to the protection of Restricted Data or other classified information in accordance with the Contractor's Safeguards and Security Plan or other security plan, as applicable. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Contractor actions that result in performance failures which unto themselves pose minor risk, but when viewed in the aggregate indicate degradation in the integrity of the Contractor's safeguards and security management system relating to the protection of Restricted Data and other classified information.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (AUG 2009). As prescribed in 970.1504-5(b)(2), replace paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of the basic clause with the following paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) and delete paragraph (d). 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The payment of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings under this contract is dependent upon the Contractor's or Contractor employees' compliance with the terms and conditions of this contract relating to environment, safety and health (ES&amp;H), which includes worker safety and health (WS&amp;H), including performance under an approved Integrated Safety Management System (ISMS). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The ES&amp;H performance requirements of this contract are set forth in its ES&amp;H terms and conditions, including the DOE approved contractor ISMS or similar document. Financial incentives for timely mission accomplishment or cost effectiveness shall never compromise or impede full and effective implementation of the ISMS and full ES&amp;H compliance. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) If the Contractor does not meet the performance requirements of this contract relating to ES&amp;H during any performance evaluation period established under the contract pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled, “Total Available Fee: Base Fee Amount and Performance Fee Amount,” otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit or share of cost savings may be unilaterally reduced by the Contracting Officer. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Reduction amount.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The amount of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings that may be unilaterally reduced will be determined by the severity of the performance failure pursuant to the degrees specified in paragraph (c) of this clause. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If a reduction of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings is warranted, unless mitigating factors apply, such reduction shall not be less than 26 percent nor greater than 100 percent of the amount of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or the Contractor's share of cost savings for a first degree performance failure, not less than 11 percent nor greater than 25 percent for a second degree performance failure, and up to 10 percent for a third degree performance failure. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) In determining the amount of the reduction and the applicability of mitigating factors, the Contracting Officer must consider the Contractor's overall performance in meeting the ES&amp;H requirements of the contract. Such consideration must include performance against any site specific performance criteria/requirements that provide additional definition, guidance for the amount of reduction, or guidance for the applicability of mitigating factors. In all cases, the Contracting Officer must consider mitigating factors that may warrant a reduction below the applicable range (see 48 CFR 970.1504-1-2). The mitigating factors include the following. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Degree of control the Contractor had over the event or incident. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Efforts the Contractor had made to anticipate and mitigate the possibility of the event in advance. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Contractor self-identification and response to the event to mitigate impacts and recurrence. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) General status (trend and absolute performance) of ES&amp;H and compliance in related areas. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Contractor demonstration to the Contracting Officer's satisfaction that the principles of industrial ES&amp;H standards are routinely practiced (e.g., Voluntary Protection Program Star Status, or ISO 14000 Certification). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Event caused by “Good Samaritan” act by the Contractor (e.g., offsite emergency response). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Contractor demonstration that a performance measurement system is routinely used to improve and maintain ES&amp;H performance (including effective resource allocation) and to support DOE corporate decision-making (e.g., policy, ES&amp;H programs). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(viii) Contractor demonstration that an Operating Experience and Feedback Program is functioning that demonstrably affects continuous improvement in ES&amp;H by use of lessons-learned and best practices inter- and intra-DOE sites.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate II</i> (AUG 2009). As prescribed in 970.1504-5(b)(3), insert the following as paragraphs (e) and (f), incentive fee or multiple fee basis (if Alternate I is also used, redesignate the following as paragraphs (d) and (e)). 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Minimum requirements for specified level of performance.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			At a minimum the Contractor must perform the following -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The requirements with specific incentives which do not require the achievement of cost efficiencies in order to be performed at the level of performance set forth in the Statement of Work, Work Authorization Directive, or similar document unless an otherwise minimum level of performance has been established in the specific incentive; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) All of the performance requirements directly related to requirements specifically incentivized which do not require the achievement of cost efficiencies in order to be performed at a level of performance such that the overall performance of these related requirements is at an acceptable level; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) All other requirements at a level of performance such that the total performance of the contract is not jeopardized. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The evaluation of the Contractor's achievement of the level of performance shall be unilaterally determined by the Government. To the extent that the Contractor fails to achieve the minimum performance levels specified in the Statement of Work, Work Authorization Directive, or similar document, during the performance evaluation period, the DOE Operations/Field Office Manager, or designee, may reduce any otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or shared net savings for the performance evaluation period. Such reduction shall not result in the total of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or shared net savings being less than 25 percent of the total available fee amount. Such 25 percent shall include base fee, if any. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Minimum requirements for cost performance.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Requirements incentivized by other than cost incentives must be performed within their specified cost constraint and must not adversely impact the costs of performing unrelated activities. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The performance of requirements with a specific cost incentive must not adversely impact the costs of performing unrelated requirements. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Contractor's performance within the stipulated cost performance levels for the performance evaluation period shall be determined by the Government. To the extent the Contractor fails to achieve the stipulated cost performance levels, the DOE Operations/Field Office Manager, or designee, may reduce in whole or in part any otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or shared net savings for the performance evaluation period. Such reduction shall not result in the total of earned fee, fixed fee, profit or shared net savings being less than 25 percent of the total available fee amount. Such 25 percent shall include base fee, if any.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
