<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_945_170_1_T48_5032435116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">945.170-1</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The DOE has established specific policies concerning special nuclear material requirements needed under DOE contracts for fabricating end items using special nuclear material, and for conversion or scrap recovery of special nuclear material. <i>Special nuclear material</i> means uranium enriched in the isotopes U233 or U235, and/or plutonium, other than PU238. The policies to be followed are:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Special nuclear material will be furnished by the DOE for fixed-price contracts and subcontracts, at any tier, which call for the production of special nuclear products, including fabrication and conversion, for Government use. (The contractor or subcontractor must have the appropriate license or licenses to receive the special nuclear material. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is the licensing agency.)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Contracts and subcontracts for fabrication of end items using special nuclear material generally shall be of the fixed-price type. Cost-type contracts or subcontracts for fabrication shall be used only with the approval of the Head of the Contracting Activity. This approval authority shall not be further delegated.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contracts and subcontracts for conversion or scrap recovery of special nuclear material shall be of a fixed-price type, except as otherwise approved by the Head of the Contracting Activity.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
