<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_226_72_T48_50325402142">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.226-72</ph> Energy Policy Act subcontracting goals and reporting requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 926.7007(c), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Energy Policy Act Subcontracting Goals and Reporting Requirements (JUN 1996)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definition.</i> Energy Policy Act target groups, as used in this provision means - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) An institution of higher education that meets the requirements of 34 CFR 600.4(a), and has a student enrollment that consists of at least 20 percent - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Hispanic Americans, i.e., students whose origins are in Mexico, Puerto Rico, Cuba, or Central or South America, or any combination thereof, or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Native Americans, i.e., American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, and Native Hawaiians, or any combination thereof;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Institutions of higher learning determined to be Historically Black Colleges and Universities by the Secretary of Education pursuant to 34 CFR 608.2; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Small business concerns, as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632), that are owned and controlled by individuals who are both socially and economically disadvantaged within the meaning of section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) or by a woman or women.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Goals.</i> The Contractor, in performance of this contract, agrees to provide its best efforts to award subcontracts to the following classes of entities - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Small business concerns controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals or by women: * * * percent;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Historically Black colleges and universities: * * * percent; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Colleges or universities having a student body in which more than 20 percent of the students are Hispanic Americans or Native Americans: * * * percent.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[* * * These goals are stated in a percentage reflecting the relationship of estimated award value of subcontracts to the value of this contract and appear elsewhere in this contract.]
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Reporting requirements.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor agrees to report, on an annual Federal Government fiscal year basis, its progress against the goals by providing the actual annual dollar value of subcontract payments for the preceding 12-month period, and the relationship of those payments to the incurred contract costs for the same period. Reports submitted pursuant to this clause must be received by the Contracting Officer (or designee) not later than 45 days after the end of the reporting period.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If the contract includes reporting requirements under FAR 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, the Contractor's progress against the goals stated in paragraph (b) of this clause shall be included as an addendum to Standard Form (SF) 294, Subcontracting Report for Individual Contracts, and/or SF 295, Summary Subcontract Report, as applicable, for the period that corresponds to the end of the Federal Government fiscal year.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
