<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_5203_1_T48_50326413113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.5203-1</ph> Management controls.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 970.0370-2(a) and 970.3270(a)(4), insert the following clause: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Management Controls (JUN 2007) 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall be responsible for maintaining, as an integral part of its organization, effective systems of management controls for both administrative and programmatic functions. Management controls comprise the plan of organization, methods, and procedures adopted by management to reasonably ensure that: the mission and functions assigned to the Contractor are properly executed; efficient and effective operations are promoted including consideration of outsourcing of functions; resources are safeguarded against waste, loss, mismanagement, unauthorized use, or misappropriation; all encumbrances and costs that are incurred under the contract and fees that are earned are in compliance with applicable clauses and other current terms, conditions, and intended purposes; all collections accruing to the Contractor in connection with the work under this contract, expenditures, and all other transactions and assets are properly recorded, managed, and reported; and financial, statistical, and other reports necessary to maintain accountability and managerial control are accurate, reliable, and timely. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The systems of controls employed by the Contractor shall be documented and satisfactory to DOE. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Such systems shall be an integral part of the Contractor's management functions, including defining specific roles and responsibilities for each level of management, and holding employees accountable for the adequacy of the management systems and controls in their areas of assigned responsibility. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Contractor shall, as part of the internal audit program required elsewhere in this contract, periodically review the management systems and controls employed in programs and administrative areas to ensure that they are adequate to provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of the systems are being accomplished and that these systems and controls are working effectively. Annually, or at other intervals directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall supply to the Contracting Officer copies of the reports reflecting the status of recommendations resulting from management audits performed by its internal audit activity and any other audit organization. This requirement may be satisfied in part by the reports required under paragraph 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			of 48 CFR 970.5232-3, Accounts, records, and inspection.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall be responsible for maintaining, as a part of its operational responsibilities, a baseline quality assurance program that implements documented performance, quality standards, and control and assessment techniques.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
