<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_3270_T48_50326411916">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.3270</ph> Standard financial management clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following DEAR and FAR clauses are standard financial management clauses. The contracting officer shall insert them in all management and operating contracts: 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(1) <i>970.5232-2, Payments and Advances.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The contracting officer shall insert the basic clause with its Alternate I if a separate fixed-fee is provided for a separate item of work. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The contracting officer shall insert the basic clause with its Alternate II when total available fee provisions in the basic clause are used. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The contracting officer shall insert the basic clause with its Alternate III in management and operating contracts with integrated accounting systems. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The contracting officer shall insert the basic clause with its Alternate IV in management and operating contracts without integrated accounting systems. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>970.5232-3, Accounts, records, and inspection.</i> If the contract includes the clause at 48 CFR 52.215-11, Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data - Modifications, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its Alternate I. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>970.5232-4, Obligation of funds.</i> The contracting officer may use the clause with its Alternate I in contracts which, expressly or otherwise, provide a contractual basis for equivalent controls in a separate clause. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) 970.5203-1, Management controls. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) 970.5232-5, Liability with respect to Cost Accounting Standards. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) 970.5232-6, Strategic Partnership Projects funding authorization. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) 48 CFR 52.230-2, Cost Accounting Standards. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) 48 CFR 52.230-6, Administration of Cost Accounting Standards. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following DEAR clauses are standard financial management clauses. The contracting officer shall insert them in all management and operating contracts with integrated accounting systems: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 970.5232-7, Financial management system. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) 970.5232-8, Integrated accounting. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Any deviations from the standard financial management clauses specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section require the approval of the Head of the Contracting Activity and the written concurrence of the Department's Chief Financial Officer. 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
