<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_5223_4_T48_503264131122">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.5223-4</ph> Workplace Substance Abuse Programs at DOE Sites.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 970.2305-4(b), insert the following clause: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Workplace Substance Abuse Programs at DOE Sites (DEC 2010) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Program implementation.</i> The Contractor shall, consistent with 10 CFR part 707, Workplace Substance Abuse Programs at DOE Sites, incorporated herein by reference with full force and effect, develop, implement, and maintain a workplace substance abuse program. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Remedies.</i> In addition to any other remedies available to the Government, the Contractor's failure to comply with the requirements of 10 CFR part 707 or to perform in a manner consistent with its approved program may render the Contractor subject to: the suspension of contract payments, or, where applicable, a reduction in award fee; termination for default; and suspension or debarment. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Subcontracts.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor agrees to notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance of, but not later than 30 days prior to, the award of any subcontract the Contractor believes may be subject to the requirements of 10 CFR part 707, unless the Contracting Officer agrees to a different date.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The DOE Prime Contractor shall require all subcontracts subject to the provisions of 10 CFR part 707 to agree to develop and implement a workplace substance abuse program that complies with the requirements of 10 CFR part 707, Workplace Substance Abuse Programs at DOE Sites, as a condition for award of the subcontract. The DOE Prime Contractor shall review and approve each subcontractor's program, and shall periodically monitor each subcontractor's implementation of the program for effectiveness and compliance with 10 CFR part 707. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Contractor agrees to include, and require the inclusion of, the requirements of this clause in all subcontracts, at any tier, that are subject to the provisions of 10 CFR part 707.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
