<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_2703_1_T48_503264114111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.2703-1</ph> Purposes of patent rights clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) DOE sites and facilities are managed and operated on behalf of the Department of Energy by a contractor, pursuant to management and operating contracts that are generally awarded for a five (5) year term, with the possibility for renewal. Special provisions relating to patent rights are appropriately incorporated into an M&amp;O contract because of the unique circumstances and responsibilities of managing and operating a Government-owned facility, as compared to other federally funded research and development contracts. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Technology transfer mission clause.</i> In accordance with Public Law 101-189, section 3133(d), DOE may grant technology transfer authority to M&amp;O contractors operating a DOE facility. Generally, M&amp;O contractors have the right to elect to retain title to inventions made under the contract, whether a nonprofit or educational organizations, as a result of 35 U.S.C. 200 <i>et seq.</i> (Bayh-Dole Act), or a large business, as a result of a class patent waiver issued pursuant to 10 CFR part 784. Under such contracts, the M&amp;O contractor assumes responsibilities for commercializing retained inventions, in accordance with the Technology Transfer Mission clause provided at 970.5227-3. That clause also governs such activities as the distribution of royalties earned from inventions made under the contract and the transfer of patent rights in inventions made under the contract to successor contractors. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If the M&amp;O contractor is a nonprofit organization or small business firm having technology transfer authority, the following clauses are inserted into the M&amp;O contract: 970.5227-3 and 970.5227-10. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) If the M&amp;O contract has technology transfer as a mission and is to be performed by a for-profit, large business firm that has been granted an advance class waiver, the following clauses are inserted into the M&amp;O contract: 970.5227-3 and 970.5227-12. The terms of the clause at 970.5227-12 are subject to modification to conform to the terms of the class waiver. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) If the M&amp;O contract does not have a technology transfer mission and is to be performed by a for-profit, large business firm and does not have advance class waiver under 10 CFR part 784, the patent rights clause at 970.5227-11 is inserted into the M&amp;O contract, and the Technology Transfer Mission clause is inapplicable. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) If the contractor is an educational institution, a non-profit organization or a small business firm and is conducting privately funded technology transfer activities, involving the use of private funds to conduct licensing and marketing activities related to inventions made under the contract in accordance with the Bayh-Dole Act, DOE may modify the patent rights clause (970.5227-10) to address issues such as the disposition of royalties earned under the privately funded technology transfer program, the transfer of patent rights to a successor contractor, allowable cost restrictions concerning privately funded technology transfer activities, and the Government's freedom from any liability related to licensing under the contractor's privately funded technology transfer program. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contracting officers must consult with DOE patent counsel assisting the contracting activity or the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property for assistance in selecting for use in the solicitation, negotiating, or approving appropriate patent rights clauses for a M&amp;O contract. It may be appropriate to include more than one patent rights clause in a solicitation if the successful contractor could, for instance, be either an educational or a large business. If a large business may be selected for performance of a contract that will include a technology transfer clause, the solicitation must include the clause at 970.5227-12 to reflect the waiver that will likely be granted. If the solicitation includes more than one patent clause, it must include an explanation of the circumstances under which the appropriate clause will be used. The final award must contain only one patent rights clause. 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
