<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2903_104_5_T48_70114115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2903.104-5</ph> Disclosure, protection, and marking of contractor bid or proposal information and source selection information.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Government employees serving in the following positions are authorized access to proprietary or source selection information, but only to the extent necessary to perform their official duties:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Personnel participating in technical evaluation panels (i.e., source selection board) or personnel evaluating an offeror's or bidder's technical or cost proposal under other competitive procedures, and personnel evaluating protests.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Personnel assigned to the contracting office.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The initiator of the procurement request (to include the official having principal technical cognizance over the requirement).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Small business specialists.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Personnel assigned to the Office of the Solicitor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Personnel assigned to the Department of Labor's Division of Cost Determination and the Defense Contract Audit Agency.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Personnel assigned to the Division of Acquisition Management Services.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) Members of the Procurement Review Board.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(9) The Office of the Inspector General.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(10) Other Government employees authorized by the contracting officer.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(11) Supervisors, at any level, of the personnel listed in this paragraph (a).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The originator of information that may be source selection information must consult with the contracting officer or the procurement officer, who must determine whether the information is source selection information. DOL personnel responsible for preparing source selection information as defined in FAR 2.101 must assure that the material is marked with the legend in FAR 3.104-4 at the time the material is prepared.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Unless marked with the legend “SOURCE SELECTION INFORMATION - SEE FAR 3.104-4,” draft specifications, purchase descriptions, and statements of work could erroneously be released during a market survey in order to determine the capabilities of potential competitive sources (see FAR 7.1 and FAR 10).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
