<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2901_603_3_T48_70112617">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2901.603-3</ph> Appointment.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>General.</i> In accordance with FAR 1.603-3, appointments will be made in writing on an SF 1402 for all warrants above the micro-purchase threshold. In addition, appointments may be made for specific functions unrelated to dollar threshold, such as indirect cost negotiation, debt management, and closeout functions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Purchase Cards (micro-purchase threshold).</i> Purchase cardholders will be appointed in accordance with the DOL Guidelines for Purchase Card Use and the Agency/Office procedures approved by the HCA. Agency/Organization Purchase Card Coordinators requesting issuance of a purchase card must be responsible for ensuring that the purchase cardholder has taken an orientation course before issuance and/or use of the purchase card. A list of purchase cardholders is available at: <i>http://www.dol.gov/oasam/foia/hotfoia/citibank-list.htm.</i>
                                 </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Simplified Acquisition Threshold (currently $100,000).</i> The HCA may request a delegation of procurement authority not to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold based on education, training, and experience in the acquisition field. Effective July 26, 2004, all new appointments must comply with training requirements listed in “OFPP Policy Letter No. 92-3, Procurement Professionalism Program Policy-Training for Contracting Personnel”, dated June 24, 1992.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>$500,000.</i> The HCA may request a delegation of procurement authority not to exceed $500,000 based on the individual's education, training and experience in contracting. Although primarily reserved for those in the GS-1102 series, the HCA may consider business acumen, education, training, and experience. Effective May 27, 2004, all new appointments must comply with training requirements listed in “OFPP Policy Letter No. 92-3, Procurement Professionalism Program Policy-Training for Contracting Personnel”, dated June 24, 1992.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Unlimited.</i> The HCA may request a delegation of procurement authority on an unlimited basis for individuals whose education, training, and experience in contracting warrant such authority. Although primarily reserved for those in the GS-1102 series, the HCA may consider length of service, training, and experience. Effective May 27, 2004, all new appointments must comply with training requirements listed in “OFPP Policy Letter No. 92-3, Procurement Professionalism Program Policy-Training for Contracting Personnel”, dated June 24, 1992.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
