<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2933_104_T48_701530113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2933.104</ph> Protests to GAO.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General procedures.</i> The HCA has the responsibility to prepare and provide to the General Accounting Office (GAO) the agency report with the information required by FAR 33.104(a). The agency report must be coordinated with the Office of the Solicitor before the report is signed and sent to the GAO.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Protests before award.</i> The authority of the HCA under FAR 33.104(b) to authorize a contract award when the agency has received notice from the GAO of a protest filed directly with the GAO is nondelegable. The HCA has the responsibility to prepare and provide to the GAO the written finding with the information required by FAR 33.104(b)(1). The written finding must be coordinated with Office of the Solicitor before the HCA affirms its approval by signing the written finding and sending it to the GAO. Copies of the signed written finding and the signed written notice to the GAO must be provided to the Senior Procurement Executive within two (2) working days after they are sent to the GAO.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Protests after award.</i> The authority of the HCA under FAR 33.104(c) to authorize contract performance when the agency has received notice from the GAO of a protest filed directly with the GAO is nondelegable. The HCA has the responsibility to prepare and provide to the GAO the written finding with the information required by FAR 33.104(c)(2). The written finding must be coordinated with the Office of the Solicitor before the notice is signed by the HCA and sent to the GAO.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Notice to the GAO.</i> The authority of the HCA under FAR 33.104(g), to report to the GAO the failure to fully implement the GAO recommendations with respect to a solicitation for a contract or an award or a proposed award of a contract within 60 days of receiving the GAO recommendations, is nondelegable. The written notice must be coordinated with the Office of the Solicitor before the notice is signed by the HCA and sent to the GAO. A copy of all notices to the GAO submitted in accordance with FAR 33.104(g) must be provided to the Senior Procurement Executive within (two) working days after they are sent to the GAO.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
