<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3452_227_72_T48_70323291115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3452.227-72</ph> Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3427_409_T48_7032019111"
                  href="Section_3427_409_T48_7032019111.dita#Section_3427_409_T48_7032019111">3427.409</xref>, insert the following clause in all contracts over the simplified acquisition threshold, and in contracts under the simplified acquisition threshold as appropriate:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement (MAR 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause, proprietary data, technical data, or computer software delivered to the Government with restrictions on use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure may not be provided to third parties unless the intended recipient completes and signs the use and non-disclosure agreement in paragraph (c) of this clause prior to release or disclosure of the data.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The specific conditions under which an intended recipient will be authorized to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose proprietary data or technical data subject to limited rights, or computer software subject to restricted rights must be stipulated in an attachment to the use and non-disclosure agreement.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) For an intended release, disclosure, or authorized use of proprietary data, technical data, or computer software subject to special license rights, modify paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this clause to enter the conditions, consistent with the license requirements, governing the recipient's obligations regarding use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of the data or software.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The requirement for use and non-disclosure agreements does not apply to Government contractors that require access to a third party's data or software for the performance of a Government contract that contains the <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3452_227_73_T48_70323291116"
                  href="Section_3452_227_73_T48_70323291116.dita#Section_3452_227_73_T48_70323291116">3452.227-73</xref> clause, Limitations on the use or disclosure of Government-furnished information marked with restrictive legends.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The prescribed use and non-disclosure agreement is:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Use and Non-Disclosure Agreement
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The undersigned, <i>[Insert Name],</i> an authorized representative of the <i>[Insert Company Name],</i> (which is hereinafter referred to as the “recipient”) requests the Government to provide the recipient with proprietary data, technical data, or computer software (hereinafter referred to as “data”) in which the Government's use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure rights are restricted. Those data are identified in an attachment to this agreement. In consideration for receiving such data, the recipient agrees to use the data strictly in accordance with this agreement.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The recipient shall - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose data marked with Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) data rights legends only for government purposes and shall not do so for any commercial purpose. The recipient shall not release, perform, display, or disclose these data, without the express written permission of the contractor whose name appears in the restrictive legend (the contractor), to any person other than its subcontractors or suppliers, or prospective subcontractors or suppliers, who require these data to submit offers for, or perform, contracts with the recipient. The recipient shall require its subcontractors or suppliers, or prospective subcontractors or suppliers, to sign a use and non-disclosure agreement prior to disclosing or releasing these data to such persons. Such an agreement must be consistent with the terms of this agreement.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose proprietary data or technical data marked with limited rights legends only as specified in the attachment to this agreement. Release, performance, display, or disclosure to other persons is not authorized unless specified in the attachment to this agreement or expressly permitted in writing by the contractor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(iii) Use computer software marked with restricted rights legends only in performance of contract number <i>[insert contract number(s)].</i> The recipient shall not, for example, enhance, decompile, disassemble, or reverse engineer the software; time share; or use a computer program with more than one computer at a time. The recipient may not release, perform, display, or disclose such software to others unless expressly permitted in writing by the licensor whose name appears in the restrictive legend.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(iv) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose data marked with special license rights legends [To be completed by the contracting officer. <i>See</i> paragraph (a)(2) of this clause. Omit if none of the data requested is marked with special license rights legends].
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) The recipient agrees to adopt or establish operating procedures and physical security measures designed to protect these data from inadvertent release or disclosure to unauthorized third parties.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(3) The recipient agrees to accept these data “as is” without any Government representation as to suitability for intended use or warranty whatsoever. This disclaimer does not affect any obligation the Government may have regarding data specified in a contract for the performance of that contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(4) The recipient may enter into any agreement directly with the contractor with respect to the use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of these data.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(5) The recipient agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Government, its agents, and employees from every claim or liability, including attorneys fees, court costs, and expenses arising out of, or in any way related to, the misuse or unauthorized modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of data received from the Government with restrictive legends by the recipient or any person to whom the recipient has released or disclosed the data.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(6) The recipient is executing this agreement for the benefit of the contractor. The contractor is a third party beneficiary of this agreement who, in addition to any other rights it may have, is intended to have the rights of direct action against the recipient or any other person to whom the recipient has released or disclosed the data, to seek damages from any breach of this agreement, or to otherwise enforce this agreement.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(7) The recipient agrees to destroy these data, and all copies of the data in its possession, no later than 30 days after the date shown in paragraph (8) of this agreement, to have all persons to whom it released the data do so by that date, and to notify the contractor that the data have been destroyed.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(8) This agreement shall be effective for the period commencing with the recipient's execution of this agreement and ending upon <i>[Insert Date].</i> The obligations imposed by this agreement shall survive the expiration or termination of the agreement.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>[Insert business name.]</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Recipient's Business Name
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>[Have representative sign.]</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Authorized Representative
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>[Insert date.]</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Date
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>[Insert name and title.]</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Representative's Typed Name and Title</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
