<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3452_216_70_T48_7032329118">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3452.216-70</ph> Additional cost principles.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts as prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3416_307_T48_7031813112"
                  href="Section_3416_307_T48_7031813112.dita#Section_3416_307_T48_7031813112">3416.307</xref>(b):</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Additional Cost Principles (MAR 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Bid and Proposal Costs.</i> Bid and proposal costs are the immediate costs of preparing bids, proposals, and applications for potential Federal and non-Federal grants, contracts, and other agreements, including the development of scientific, cost, and other data needed to support the bids, proposals, and applications. Bid and proposal costs of the current accounting period are allowable as indirect costs; bid and proposal costs of past accounting periods are unallowable as costs of the current period. However, if the organization's established practice is to treat these costs by some other method, they may be accepted if they are found to be reasonable and equitable. Bid and proposal costs do not include independent research and development costs or pre-award costs.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Independent research and development costs.</i> Independent research and development is research and development that is not sponsored by Federal and non-Federal grants, contracts, or other agreements. Independent research and development shall be allocated its proportionate share of indirect costs on the same basis as the allocations of indirect costs of sponsored research and development. The costs of independent research and development, including its proportionate share of indirect costs, are unallowable.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
