<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3452_208_72_T48_7032329114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3452.208-72</ph> Paperwork Reduction Act.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3408_871_T48_703177112"
                  href="Section_3408_871_T48_703177112.dita#Section_3408_871_T48_703177112">3408.871</xref>, insert the following clause in all relevant solicitations and contracts:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Paperwork Reduction Act (MAR 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 applies to contractors that collect information for use or disclosure by the Federal government. If the contractor will collect information requiring answers to identical questions from 10 or more people, no plan, questionnaire, interview guide, or other similar device for collecting information may be used without first obtaining clearance from the Chief Acquisition Officer (CAO) or the CAO's designee within the Department of Education (ED) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Contractors and Contracting Officers' Representatives shall be guided by the provisions of 5 CFR part 1320, Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public, and should seek the advice of the Department's Paperwork Clearance Officer to determine the procedures for acquiring CAO and OMB clearance.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contractor shall obtain the required clearances through the Contracting Officer's Representative before expending any funds or making public contacts for the collection of information described in paragraph (a) of this clause. The authority to expend funds and proceed with the collection shall be in writing by the contracting officer. The contractor must plan at least 120 days for CAO and OMB clearance. Excessive delay caused by the Government that arises out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the contractor will be considered in accordance with the Excusable Delays or Default clause of this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
