<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3452_227_73_T48_70323291116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3452.227-73</ph> Limitations on the use or disclosure of Government-furnished information marked with restrictive legends.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3427_409_T48_7032019111"
                  href="Section_3427_409_T48_7032019111.dita#Section_3427_409_T48_7032019111">3427.409</xref>, insert the following clause in all contracts of third party vendors who require access to Government-furnished information including other contractors' technical data, proprietary information, or software:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Limitations on The Use Or Disclosure of Government-Furnished Information Marked With Restrictive Legends (MAR 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) For contracts under which data are to be produced, furnished, or acquired, the terms <i>limited rights</i> and <i>restricted rights</i> are defined in the rights in data - general clause (FAR 52.227-14).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Proprietary data, technical data, or computer software provided to the contractor as Government-furnished information (GFI) under this contract may be subject to restrictions on use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or further disclosure.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Proprietary data with legends that serve to restrict disclosure or use of data.</i> The contractor shall use, modify, reproduce, perform, or display proprietary data received from the Government with proprietary or restrictive legends only in the performance of this contract. The contractor shall not, without the express written permission of the party who owns the data, release, or disclose such data or software to any person.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>GFI marked with limited or restricted rights legends.</i> The contractor shall use, modify, reproduce, perform, or display technical data received from the Government with limited rights legends or computer software received with restricted rights legends only in the performance of this contract. The contractor shall not, without the express written permission of the party whose name appears in the legend, release or disclose such data or software to any person.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>GFI marked with specially negotiated license rights legends.</i> The contractor shall use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, or display proprietary data, technical data, or computer software received from the Government with specially negotiated license legends only as permitted in the license. Such data or software may not be released or disclosed to other persons unless permitted by the license and, prior to release or disclosure, the intended recipient has completed the use and non-disclosure agreement. The contractor shall modify paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of the use and non-disclosure agreement (3452.227-72) to reflect the recipient's obligations regarding use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, and disclosure of the data or software.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Indemnification and creation of third party beneficiary rights.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contractor agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Government, its agents, and employees from every claim or liability, including attorneys fees, court costs, and expenses, arising out of, or in any way related to, the misuse or unauthorized modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of proprietary data, technical data, or computer software received from the Government with restrictive legends by the contractor or any person to whom the contractor has released or disclosed such data or software.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contractor agrees that the party whose name appears on the restrictive legend, in addition to any other rights it may have, is a third party beneficiary who has the right of direct action against the contractor, or any person to whom the contractor has released or disclosed such data or software, for the unauthorized duplication, release, or disclosure of proprietary data, technical data, or computer software subject to restrictive legends.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
