<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3452_242_70_T48_70323291126">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3452.242-70</ph> Litigation and claims.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3442_7001_T48_7032225111"
                  href="Section_3442_7001_T48_7032225111.dita#Section_3442_7001_T48_7032225111">3442.7001</xref>, insert the following clause in all solicitations and resultant cost-reimbursement contracts: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Litigation and Claims (MAR 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor shall give the contracting officer immediate notice in writing of - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Any legal action, filed against the contractor arising out of the performance of this contract, including any proceeding before any administrative agency or court of law, and also including, but not limited to, the performance of any subcontract hereunder; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any claim against the contractor for cost that is allowable under the “allowable cost and payment” clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Except as otherwise directed by the contracting officer, the contractor shall immediately furnish the contracting officer copies of all pertinent papers received under that action or claim.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) If required by the contracting officer, the contractor shall - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Effect an assignment and subrogation in favor of the Government of all the contractor's rights and claims (except those against the Government) arising out of the action or claim against the contractor; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Authorize the Government to settle or defend the action or claim and to represent the contractor in, or to take charge of, the action.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If the settlement or defense of an action or claim is undertaken by the Government, the contractor shall furnish all reasonable required assistance. However, if an action against the contractor is not covered by a policy of insurance, the contractor shall notify the contracting officer and proceed with the defense of the action in good faith.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) To the extent not in conflict with any applicable policy of insurance, the contractor may, with the contracting officer's approval, settle any such action or claim.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Government shall not be liable for the expense of defending any action or for any costs resulting from the loss thereof to the extent that the contractor would have been compensated by insurance that was required by law, regulation, contract clause, or other written direction of the contracting officer, but that the contractor failed to secure through its own fault or negligence.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) In any event, unless otherwise expressly provided in this contract, the contractor shall not be reimbursed or indemnified by the Government for any cost or expense of liability that the contractor may incur or be subject to by reason of any loss, injury, or damage, to the person or to real or personal property of any third parties as may arise from the performance of this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
