<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1049070" outputclass="1">
      <title outputclass="Heading1">ANNEX 12 - Waiver Request for Appointing
a Non-DON Employee as a Contracting Officer</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="Normal">In accordance with 5201.603,
HCAs or their authorized designees shall notify DASN(P) of a planned
issuance of a contracting officer appointment and warrant to a non-DON
employee, except when a DON activity is designated HCA for a joint-contracting operation.
The notification and/or waiver request must address the following
information:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">I. Identify DON/DOD Employee to be Delegated
Contracting Authority</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Name of Nominee (as it will appear
on the SF 1402, Certificate of Contracting Officer Appointment)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Grade/Series or Military Rank</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. Position/Title</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">d. Description of Duties</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">e. Activity Name/DODAAC</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">II. Describe How the Qualifications of
the Nominee Meet the Requirements for the Recommended Level of Delegation</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Education*</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Specialized Experience</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. Relevant Training*</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">d. Other Qualifications (e.g. DAWIA Career
Field Certifications, Defense Acquisition Corps Membership)*</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">*Note: Submit documentation to substantiate
credentials/education completed.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">III. Describe Extent of Contracting Authority
to be Delegated</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Type of Appointment (e.g. PCO, ACO,
Ordering Officer)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Dollar Threshold (e.g. Unlimited, Limited
to Specific Dollar Value)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. Type of work/products/services nominee
will be authorized to procure or administer</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">d. Limitations (e.g. Contract Type; Competitive
or Non-Competitive Actions, etc.)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">e. Appointment Term</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">IV. Provide Rationale to Support Delegation
of Contracting Authority</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Explain why this delegation is necessary
and how it results in a more efficient execution and administration
of the HCAs contracting operations.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Identify the anticipated workload to
support the type of appointment, including the available resources
at the Nominee’s Organization.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. Describe the internal controls that
are or will be in place at the Nominee’s Organization and at the
HCA/delegating office to ensure efficient and effective execution
and management oversight of delegated authority.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
