<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1063878" outputclass="1">
      <title outputclass="Heading1">ANNEX 21 – MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT
PROCESS FOR THE ACQUISITION OF SERVICES - STREAMLINED (MOPAS-S)</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="Normal">(Classification: UNCLASSIFIED/FOR
OFFICIAL USE ONLY)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">MOPAS Number: __________ Rev: _______</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Program Title: ________________________________________________
ACAT_____</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Acquisition Manager: __________________________________________
Code _____</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">APPROVED BY:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">[insert typed name of the Approving Official
(include title). If the SSM is Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">the Approving Official, insert “DASN(P)”]</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">RECOMMEND APPROVAL:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">[insert typed name of the HCA, PEO, or
DRPM (include title) if not the Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Approving Official.]</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">[insert typed name of the Chief of Contracting
Office] Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">[insert typed name of the Contracting
Officer and phone number] Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">[insert typed name of the Program Manager
and phone number] Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">This MOPAS will be reviewed for possible
revision no less often than annually in accordance</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">with NMCARS 5237.503.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT B: Distribution
authorized to U.S. Government agencies only (fill in reason) (date
of determination). Other requests for this document shall be referred
to ________ (insert controlling office).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">MOPAS-S FORMAT AND CONTENT</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Section 1. Requirements Development and
Management</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1.1 Statement of Need. Describe the requirement,
its source, the outcomes to be achieved and, if performance based,
the metrics to measure the outcomes. In your description of the
product or service, explain the choice of product or service description code
ensuring it aligns with the DOD taxonomy associated with the acquisition
of services, supplies and equipment. (See USD(ATL) memorandum entitled,
“Taxonomy for the Acquisition of Services and Supplies &amp;</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Equipment” dated August 27, 2012.)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1.2 Historical Summary. Identify how the
requirement was previously satisfied or identify it as a new requirement.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1.3 Market Research. Discuss how market
research was performed and the results.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1.4 Bundling/Consolidation. Discuss the
impact of any bundling or consolidation that might affect small
business participation in the acquisition. When the proposed acquisition
strategy involves bundling, identify the incumbent contractors and
contracts affected by the bundling.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1.5 Technical Data. Discuss the requirements
for contractor data (including repurchase data) and data rights,
their estimated cost, and the use to be made of the data. Explain
how the use of the technical data and data rights will be used to
sustain competition.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Section 2. Acquisition Planning</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.1. Acquisition Approach. Discuss the
acquisition approach including appropriate milestones,</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">including actual or anticipated SRRB approval.
If the requirements include services specified in Annex 22 but not
covered by an exception listed at 5237.102, discuss how SeaPort
was considered.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.2 Budget. Identify the estimated cost
for each option/phase for acquisitions that contemplate the use
of options or a multiple phased approach. Explain how budget estimates
were derived and discuss the schedule for obtaining adequate funds
at the time they are required.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.3 Funding. Identify funding to support
the action by fiscal year and appropriation.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normalwithline">2.4 Category Management/Strategic
Sourcing. Describe how category management, including strategic
sourcing, will be considered for incorporation into this acquisition.
Address whether the requirement can be achieved through an existing
Federal, DOD, or DON contract vehicle. If establishing a new contract
vehicle when a similar solution exists, include supporting information
to justify why it is necessary to meet the requirement. In addition,
address category management Tier solutions and Analysis of Alternative
(AoA) requirements, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) memorandum M-19-13, for all common requirements.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.5 Performance-based Acquisition. Discuss
the use of performance-based acquisition methods or rationale for
not using performance-based methods.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.6 Socioeconomic Considerations. Discuss
the consideration of small businesses. Clearly identify how small
business will be utilized to meet program or contract requirements,
as either a prime contractor or through the use of subcontract provisions.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.7 Source-selection procedures. Explain
the type of source selection procedure being contemplated (i.e.,
Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA), Price/Technical Tradeoff
or Value Adjusted Total Evaluated Price (VATEP)) in the evaluation
of proposals and source selection. Discuss why the choice is appropriate
and in the best interest of the Government.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.8 Deviations. Discuss any applicable
FAR or DFARS deviations that will be required.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.9 Competition. Describe how competition
will be sought, promoted, and sustained throughout the course of
the acquisition. If full and open competition is not contemplated,
cite the appropriate FAR authority. Discuss the basis for the application
of that authority, identify the source(s), and discuss why full
and open competition cannot be obtained.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.10 Special Contracting Methods. Discuss
the use and authority of multi-year contracting or other special
contracting methods.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.11 Requirements Validation.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.11.1 Discuss the Government process
to ensure contractors are not performing inherently governmental
functions or functions closely associated with inherently governmental
functions. If the contract does contain functions closely associated
with inherently governmental functions, discuss the safeguards planned
to ensure effective management of contractor personnel in these
positions.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.11.2 Discuss the Government process
to ensure contractors are not performing personal services. If the
contract does contain requirements requiring personal services,
discuss the safeguards planned to ensure effective management of
contractor personnel in these positions.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.11.3 Discuss the Government process
to address an organizational conflict of interest (if applicable).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2.12 Service Acquisition Workshop (SAW).
For Services acquisitions above the threshold defined in 5237.192(a),
discuss the use of the SAW (include the anticipated participants
in the multi-</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">functional team) to maximize SAW benefits.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Section 3. Solicitation and Contract Award</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3.1 Contract type selection. Discuss the
rationale for the selection of contract type. Provide an analysis
of why the use of that contract type is appropriate (e.g., complexity
of the requirements, uncertain duration of the work, contractor’s
technical capability and financial responsibility, or adequacy of
the contractor’s accounting system). Discuss the opportunity to
transition from cost type to fixed priced contracts, if applicable.
Provide rationale if procuring services that are performance-based
and a contract type other than a firm-fixed price is contemplated.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3.2 Delivery Schedule/Period of Performance.
Describe the basis for establishing delivery schedule or period
of performance. Include the rationale for the appropriate period
of performance relative to the type of procurement.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Section 4. Risk Management</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Risks. Discuss technical, cost, and schedule
risks and describe what efforts are planned or underway to reduce
risk and the consequences of failure to achieve goals. If concurrency
of development and production is planned, discuss its effects on
cost and schedule risks.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Section 5. Contract Tracking and Oversight</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5.1 Contract Administration Office and
Functions. Identify the organization performing contract administration
functions.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5.2 Contract Administration Management
Approach. Discuss existing or proposed management approach for contract
administration, quality assurance surveillance plans, oversight
plans and responsibilities.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5.3 Contracting Officer’s Representative
(COR)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Discuss the COR qualifications to support
effective contract management and oversight.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5.4 Discuss COR workload management to
ensure effective job performance (e.g., number of contracts managed,
other duties assigned, etc.).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Section 6. Performance Evaluation</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">6.1. Performance Measures. Describe the
plan for evaluating performance metrics or other measures to identify
what has been achieved. Such measures shall include thresholds for
cost, schedule and performance.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">6.2 Delivery Tracking Process. Discuss
the Government process for tracking and overseeing contractor delivery.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">6.3 CPARS. Identify personnel responsible
for assessing and reporting contractor performance into the Contractor
Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS).</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
