<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1033374" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5237.204 Guidelines for determining
availability of personnel.</title>
            <conbody id="i1033378">
               <p outputclass="List3">(a) Approval by
the SSA of a source selection plan identifying only agency/FFRDC
personnel as evaluators may constitute the determination that sufficient
personnel are available within the agency to evaluate or analyze
proposals. Determinations that sufficient personnel are not readily
available within the agency nor within another Federal agency shall
be made in accordance with (d) below. (b)(1)(i) Activities should
use common sense and reasonably available information in determining
which other Federal agencies or Navy/Marine Corps activities may
have personnel with the training and capabilities required to support
evaluation of proposals. The nature and extent of efforts an activity
should pursue in obtaining information depend on the circumstances
of the procurement, taking into consideration such factors as those
listed in FAR 37.204(b), the specialized nature of the qualifications
and expertise required, and the activity’s previous experience in
attempting to identify similarly qualified personnel. (ii) Qualified employees
of another agency who could only be available at times other than
when needed to conduct a planned evaluation of proposals may be
considered “not readily available” if it is not practical to adjust
the evaluation schedule to accommodate using them. (c) If another
agency will make personnel available on a reimbursable basis, Subpart 17.5
will generally apply. (d) HCAs are delegated authority to determine
that personnel with the required training and capabilities needed
to conduct evaluations or analyses of any aspect of proposals for
an initial contract award are not readily available within the agency
or other Federal agencies. The procedures in FAR Subpart 1.7 apply
to HCA determinations made under this section.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept>
</dita>
