<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita><concept id="i1033206" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">5233.9002 Contractor appeals to
the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA).</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a) General. The Office of the
General Counsel (OGC) has sole litigation authority for all appeals
under DON contracts to the ASBCA. Because of the frequent complexity
of these cases, the OGC and the contracting activity involved should maintain
the continuity of any DON claim team that might have investigated
and evaluated the contractor's claim submission. Such teams should
continue to function in an assisting capacity under the leadership
of the OGC Trial Attorney assigned to handle the appeal.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(b) Litigation report requirement. With
the compilation of Rule 4 documents, a comprehensive litigation
report shall be forwarded to the Litigation Division. The report
should include:</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) A detailed narrative statement of facts,
preferably in chronological sequence, and with a topical segregation
when appropriate, with references to attached supporting documents
of expected testimony. If such a statement was previously submitted,
it need not be submitted a second time, but should be supplemented
or revised if additional information becomes available in the interim.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) An analysis and evaluation (classified
as attorneyclient privileged information) of the factual and legal
positions of both sides (including affirmative defenses and counterclaims
available to the Government), the available evidence, and the expertise
and effectiveness of prospective witnesses.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(3) The advisory report, if any, of the
reviewing official or board.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(c) Settlement negotiations pending appeal.
The conduct of settlement negotiations in connection with any pending
appeal should generally be accomplished by a selected team consisting
of the trial attorney and representatives of the contracting officer
(including contracting activity technical personnel, counsel, negotiator,
and auditor if necessary). Other arrangements may be made in specific
cases as appropriate. However, no final settlement agreement will
be made without the written approval of the contracting officer.
When a settlement is made, a memorandum shall be prepared by the
negotiating team (and signed by all team members) stating the basis
and reasons. The settlement agreement shall be drafted by the contracting
activity and trial attorney. The trial attorney shall file any legal
papers required to be filed with the ASBCA to effect disposition
of the case by mutual agreement of the parties.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(d) Review and approval. Negotiated settlements
of appeals pending before the ASBCA, as well as negotiated settlements of
appeal issues that have been remanded to the DON for quantum determination,
will be subject to review and approval at levels established for
claims of the same dollar amount.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(e) Contract modification. Whenever contract
modification and other contract documents are required to implement
a settlement of ASBCA or appellate court decision, they should reference
the ASBCA proceedings by title and docket number.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept></dita>