<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1032056" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5217.770 Procedures.</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="Normal">HCAs shall establish and maintain
procedures for reviewing and approving orders placed for supplies
and services under non-DoD contracts, whether through direct acquisition
or assisted acquisition, when the amount of the order exceeds the
simplified acquisition threshold.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) Assisted acquisitions.</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(i) ASN(RDA) is the decision authority
for assisted acquisitions exceeding $550,000,000.</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(ii) DASN(P) is the decision authority
for assisted acquisitions exceeding $50,000,000.</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The HCA is the decision authority
for assisted acquisitions at or below $50,000,000. This authority
may be delegated; but, for requirements over $5,000,000, decision
authority may only be delegated to an official in the Requiring Organization
who is a Flag or General Officer; a member of the SES; or, for a
requirement arising from a claimant activity without Flag/General
Officer/SES, the commanding officer of that activity.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) Direct acquisitions. The business clearance
approval official is the decision authority for direct acquisitions.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept>
</dita>
