<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <topic id="i1049070"
          domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
          ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
          class="- topic/topic ">
      <title outputclass="Heading1" class="- topic/title ">ANNEX 12 - Waiver Request for Appointing
a Non-DON Employee as a Contracting Officer</title>
      <body class="- topic/body ">
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">In accordance with 5201.603, HCAs
or their authorized designees shall notify DASN(P) of a planned
issuance of a contracting officer appointment and warrant to a non-DON
employee, except when a DON activity is designated HCA for a joint-contracting operation.
The notification and/or waiver request must address the following
information:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">I. Identify DON/DOD Employee to be Delegated
Contracting Authority</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">a. Name of Nominee (as it will appear
on the SF 1402, Certificate of Contracting Officer Appointment)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">b. Grade/Series or Military Rank</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">c. Position/Title</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">d. Description of Duties</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">e. Activity Name/DODAAC</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">II. Describe How the Qualifications of
the Nominee Meet the Requirements for the Recommended Level of Delegation</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">a. Education*</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">b. Specialized Experience</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">c. Relevant Training*</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">d. Other Qualifications (e.g. DAWIA Career
Field Certifications, Defense Acquisition Corps Membership)*</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">*Note: Submit documentation to substantiate
credentials/education completed.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">III. Describe Extent of Contracting Authority
to be Delegated</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">a. Type of Appointment (e.g. PCO, ACO,
Ordering Officer)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">b. Dollar Threshold (e.g. Unlimited, Limited
to Specific Dollar Value)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">c. Type of work/products/services nominee
will be authorized to procure or administer</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">d. Limitations (e.g. Contract Type; Competitive
or Non-Competitive Actions, etc.)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">e. Appointment Term</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">IV. Provide Rationale to Support Delegation
of Contracting Authority</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">a. Explain why this delegation is necessary
and how it results in a more efficient execution and administration
of the HCAs contracting operations.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">b. Identify the anticipated workload to
support the type of appointment, including the available resources
at the Nominee’s Organization.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">c. Describe the internal controls that
are or will be in place at the Nominee’s Organization and at the
HCA/delegating office to ensure efficient and effective execution
and management oversight of delegated authority.</p>
      </body>
   </topic>
</dita>
