<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1033466" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5242.191 Audit resolution and disposition.</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a) Resolution of findings/recommendations
in reportable contract audit reports, other than pre-award audits,
is required within six months of report issuance. When an audit’s
findings/recommendations are resolved, they shall be supported, in
the official contract file, by a negotiation memorandum, if applicable;
a memorandum for the record; or other appropriate specific written
documentation in the file. Disposition, including fund recovery
actions, shall take place as soon as possible after resolution.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(b) HCAs are responsible for establishing
procedures to accomplish audit resolution and disposition within
the required times and to comply with the DOD Instruction 7640.02,
Policy for Follow-Up on Contract Audit Reports. Semiannual (March 31
and September 30 of each year) reporting requirements shall be conducted
through routine and timely entry of resolved, unresolved, dispositioned,
or in litigation or investigation and document forward date within
the CAFU DCMA eTools system at https://psctool.us. If the resolution
and disposition of reportable contract audit reports become over-age,
documentation of actions taken to achieve resolution and disposition
shall be recorded within the CAFU DCMA eTools system monthly. DASN(P)
PA&amp;BT is the DON liaison.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept>
</dita>
