<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita><concept id="i1033758" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">5252.223-9000 DON ADDITIONAL SAFETY
REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIED GOVERNMENT FURNISHED AMMUNITION
AND EXPLOSIVES</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">As prescribed at 5223.370-5,
insert the following clause in the schedule of the contract:</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">DON ADDITIONAL SAFETY REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE
TO SPECIFIED GOVERNMENT FURNISHED AMMUNITION AND EXPLOSIVES (OCT
1997)</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">The following additional safety requirements
apply to Government Furnished Material (GFM) Ammunition and Explosives (A&amp;E)
containing nitrocellulose-based propellants and/or nitrate ester-based
materials (such as nitroglycerin,) or such other similar A&amp;E
provided as GFM and designated by the Contracting Officer which
have a tendency to become chemically unstable over time:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor shall maintain inventory
control records of potentially unstable GFM A&amp;E by National
Stock Number (NSN) or part number, lot number, nomenclature, storage
location, quantity and date of receipt.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall comply with any
Government notice concerning any restrictions, suspensions and limitations imposed
by the cognizant Government component on GFM A&amp;E to ensure that
the materials are safe for continued storage.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) Upon receipt of a notice from the Government
of reclassification actions taken by the Government that render
GFM A&amp;E unserviceable, suspended or restricted, the Contractor
shall immediately follow the instructions contained within the notice.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(d) When directed by the Government, the
Contractor shall ship samples of GFM A&amp;E in its possession to
the Government testing facilities. GFM A&amp;E samples will be shipped
with the Contract Number, NSN or part number, lot number, nomenclature
and quantity clearly marked on the Bill of Lading. Failure to comply
may result in rejection and/or disposal of the material at the destination
at the expense of the Contractor. Any costs associated with the
rejection and/or disposal of non-compliant or unauthorized shipments
shall be borne by the Contractor.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(e) Within 30 days of completion or termination
of the contract, the Contractor shall request disposition instructions
from the Contracting Officer for any residual, unserviceable, suspended
or restricted GFM A&amp;E. The Contracting Officer shall provide
disposition instructions to the Contractor not later than 90 days
after they are requested.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(f) If disposition instructions direct
shipment to a Government disposal or storage activity, the Contractor
shall obtain verification of the contents and marking by the contract
administration office Quality Assurance Representative prior to
shipment. Additionally, the Contractor shall notify the receiving
activity 30 days prior to shipment and provide a detailed list of
GFM A&amp;E being returned. Returned materials will be shipped with
the Contract Number, NSN or part number, lot number, nomenclature
and quantity clearly marked. Failure to comply may result in rejection
and/or disposal of the material at the destination at the expense
of the Contractor. Any costs associated with the rejection and/or
disposal of non-compliant or unauthorized shipments shall be borne
by the Contractor.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(g) If the Contractor has the capability
to dispose of these materials at its facility and has been instructed
to do so through disposition instructions, the Contractor shall
provide written notice to the Contracting Officer identifying the
materials it is disposing of by the Contract Number, NSN or part
number, lot number, nomenclature and quantity, and the date the disposition
of the materials was accomplished.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(h) If direction issued under the clause
causes an increase in the cost of performance under this contract,
the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the
contract price.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal"/>
               </conbody>
            </concept></dita>