<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1010704" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5201.601-90 Department of the Navy
authorities and responsibilities.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) General. DON HCAs are responsible
for establishing adequate and effective internal controls to carefully
manage and closely oversee the execution of delegated contracting
authority for assigned contracting mission functions. This includes proactively
working with requirements and program personnel during acquisition
planning to facilitate the timely submission of requirements to
the appropriate contracting activity for contract action in a manner
which promotes and permits maximum competition. In conjunction with
executing assigned contracting missions, there are certain types
of procurements for which authority resides solely with the DON
HCA as described in paragraph (c) below, unless authority is delegated
in writing to another DON HCA and accepted by the receiving DON
HCA to execute those procurements. Delegation of DON contracting
authority applies only within the DON. Requirements executed outside
of the DON shall follow the appropriate governing rules/regulations/policies
(e.g., The Economy Act, Assisted Acquisition, FAR Part 17). At a
minimum, DON HCAs shall address the following requirements and how
they will be met in the contracting activity’s procedures for delegation
of contracting authority:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) Tracking of all contracting authority
that has been delegated and any limitations on the contracting authority.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) Tracking of delegations received from
HCAs.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) Activities shall provide DASN(P) a
listing of delegations issued on an annual basis in the format provided
at Annex 11. Activities shall submit the template in Annex 11, Delegation
of Contracting Authority Annual Report, by email at Policy@navy.mil
with the subject “NMCARS 5201.601-90 – Contracting Authority Delegation
Approval Annual Report” not later than January 30th of each year
for the previous calendar year.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(4) Ensuring contracting authority delegations
are made, in writing from DON HCA to DON HCA, without power of redelegation,
to include:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(A) Documenting the rationale supporting
the delegation and address why the delegation is necessary for the
efficient and proper administration of the receiving DON HCA’s contracting
operations.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(B) The requirement that the DON HCA receiving
the delegated authority affirmatively acknowledge and accept the
conditions of the delegation in writing prior to exercising the
delegated authority.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(C) The extent to which the HCA delegated
authority may be redelegated to contracting offices not under the
cognizance of the receiving HCA unless specifically requested.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(D) Ensuring the delegated contracting
authority is being executed and administered in accordance with
the delegation of authority and contracting regulations, rules,
and procedures.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) HCA responsibilities and limitations.
Each HCA is solely responsible for executing its delegated contracting
authority for assigned acquisition programs and cognizant areas
of responsibilities subject to any established limitation. An HCA has
authority to procure supplies and services to support all organic
requirements, such as those set forth in SECNAVINST 5400.15, unless
such procurements fall within the scope of unique contracting responsibilities
assigned to another HCA.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) HCA unique contracting authorities.
The assigned responsibilities of the DON contracting activities
are as follows:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy
(Procurement) (DASN(P)) has the following overarching responsibilities:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(A) Serves as the principal advisor and
executive agent to ASN(RDA), who serves as the Navy Acquisition
Executive and Senior Procurement Executive.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(B) Exercises plenary contracting authority
on behalf of the Department, including approving, revising or denying DON
Activity contracting responsibilities.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(C) Reviews and processes Justification
and Approvals (J&amp;As) requiring ASN(RDA) approval.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(D) Reviews and processes acquisition documents
(e.g. acquisition plans, acquisition</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">strategies for services, Determination
and Findings (D&amp;Fs)) requiring DASN(P) or</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">higher-level approval.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(E) Approves individual and class deviations
and waivers from the FAR and DFARS.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(F) Serves as the DON’s representative
on the Defense Acquisition Regulations (DAR) Council and provides
DON policy, guidance, oversight and coordination for DAR Council
committees and FAR teams.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(G) Serves as the DON focal point for
coordination, interpretation and implementation of DOD acquisition
policy, including all DOD 5000-series instructions, manuals and
directives.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(H) Implements and maintains the NMCARS.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(I) Oversees, provides guidance, and conducts
Procurement Performance Management Assessment Program (PPMAP) reviews
and DON Peer Reviews.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(J) Executes the ASN(RDA) duties as the
senior official responsible for the management of acquisition of
contract services.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(K) Serves as the DON focal point for the
compilation and review of the Inventory of Contracted Services.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(L) Serves as the DON lead for proposed
mergers and acquisitions as well as the Committee on Foreign Investment in
the United States reviews.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(M) Serves as the Competition Advocate
General (CAG) of the Navy and as principal advisor to the Secretary
of the Navy and to ASN(RDA) for competition policy issues. The CAG
is responsible for challenging barriers to competition and promoting
full and open competition in the acquisition process pursuant to
the Competition in Contracting Act (CICA); developing and assigning
annual competition goals for the Activities; preparing an annual
report addressing DON competition results; sponsoring DON acquisition
achievement awards programs; and publishing long-range acquisition
estimates.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(N) Serves as the DON Acquisition Ombudsman.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(O) Chairs the Navy Contract Adjustment
Board in accordance with Public Law 85-804.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(P) Represents ASN(RDA) on committees
and workgroups relating to acquisition, program management, contractual
services and audits conducted by the Government Accountability Office,
DOD Inspector General (DODIG), Naval Inspector General, and Naval
Audit Service.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(Q) Advises ASN(RDA) on matters related
to contractor labor relations. Develops, implements, and oversees
the execution of policies and procedures on contractor labor relations.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(R) Serves as the DON focal point for industrial
base policy, to include the exercise of responsibilities related
to the Defense Production Act, the Defense Priorities and Allocation
System, requests for special priorities assistance, and assessments
of the industrial base.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) Installations and Logistics, Headquarters,
U.S. Marine Corps (HQMC, I&amp;L) is responsible for the award and
administration of contracts for supplies and services to support
installation and logistics requirements of the Marine Corps Operating
Forces and supporting establishments.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) Marine Corps Systems Command (MARCORSYSCOM)
is responsible for awarding and administering contracts for assigned
Marine Corps programs, assigned IT systems programs or components,
and relevant professional, research and engineering services, except
for naval aviation programs.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(4) Military Sealift Command (MSC) is responsible
for awarding and administering contracts for services of ocean-going ships,
craft, floating dry docks, and other repair facilities, for purposes
such as oceanographic research and survey, underwater research,
cable laying, and range instrumentation; and contracts for the maintenance,
conversion, and modernization of assigned vessels. MSC’s unique
contracting responsibilities include contracts for services of ferries
and tugs but exclude contracts for (i) pilot services and (ii) ferries
and tugs used for husbanding services, including water taxi contracts
awarded outside the continental United States under husbanding services
contracts. MSC transportation responsibilities are identified in
the Defense Transportation Regulation.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(5) Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIRSYSCOM)
is responsible for awarding and administering contracts for naval aviation
programs and efforts supported by the Naval Air Warfare Centers,
to include relevant logistics, training and professional, research
and engineering services. In addition, NAVAIRSYSCOM unique contracting
responsibilities include designing, developing, procuring, and supporting
naval aviation systems used by the Navy and Marine Corps.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(6) Naval Facilities Engineering Command
(NAVFACENGCOM) is responsible for awarding and administering contracts for
all architect-engineer, construction, utilities, energy, facilities
support, and assigned weapon and IT system programs or components
associated with Navy expeditionary forces.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(i) NAVFACENGCOM’s unique contracting responsibilities
include:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(A) Facility engineering and construction,
including capital improvements;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(B) Utilities, including sales and privatization;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(C) Shore Energy, including renewable,
conservation, Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs) and Utility Energy
Service Contracts (UESCs), and sales;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(D) Environmental remediation, cultural
resources (on DOD installations only), historical research, natural resources
conservation studies (on and off DOD installations), execution of
the Defense Environmental Restoration Program (DERP), delegated
caretaker functions at military installations to be closed under
the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990, and any amendments
thereto;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(E) Public works, including maintenance
of buildings, grounds, roads and other infrastructure;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(F) Guard services related to the protection
and security of U.S. military installations and facilities;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(G) Anti-Terrorism Force Protection (ATFP)
infrastructure (ashore);</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(H) Contingency engineering, expeditionary
and construction training systems and equipment;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(I) Logistics-over-the-shore, near shore,
and ocean facilities infrastructure systems;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(J) Navy expeditionary equipment, infrastructure,
and Information Technology (IT) related systems;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(K) Procurement and lease (over 120 days)
of Navy (excludes United States Marine Corps (USMC)) civil engineer support
equipment, including railway, construction and weight-handling equipment;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(L) Procurement and maintenance of automotive
vehicles used by DON; and</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(M) Lease (over 120 days) of automotive
vehicles used by DON.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(N) Construction, lease, purchase and/or
installation of relocatable buildings.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(O) DON acquisition of public utility services
including, but not limited to, electricity, gas, water, sewerage,
drainage, fire and police protection, street lighting and cleaning,
and trash and garbage disposal.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">In addition, NAVFACENGCOM is responsible
for contract administration functions associated with construction
work under contracts awarded by other DON contracting activities
that contain any construction work.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Procedures.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(A) If an HCA other than NAVFACENGCOM intends
to award a contract, and the contract scope contains any element
of construction work, contracting officers shall consult with NAVFACENGCOM,
as early as practicable in the acquisition planning process, to
ensure HCA solicitations and contracts containing any element of
construction work are properly structured, and the construction
work under the contract is administered, in accordance with DON
policy.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(B) NAVFACENGCOM will, upon request, assist
contracting officers in determining whether the extent of construction
activities to be performed under an HCA contract for supplies, equipment,
services, or research and development, etc. requires a delegation
of construction contracting authority from the Commander, NAVFACENGCOM
(COMNAVFACENGCOM) and/or triggers the application of FAR Subpart
22.4, Labor Standards for Contracts Involving Construction. The
delegation of authority is contingent on the HCA demonstrating,
in a written request for authority, that contracting and technical/program
personnel properly trained in construction contract administration
and the labor standards applicable to construction work are available
in the activity/organization.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(7) Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEASYSCOM)
is responsible for awarding and administering contracts for ships and
submarines, assigned weapon systems and platforms, and relevant
professional, research and engineering services. NAVSEASYSCOM unique
contracting responsibilities include awarding and administering
contracts for construction, maintenance and modernization of ships
and submarines, nuclear propulsion, water craft, submersibles, equipage
for towing, diving and salvage, and University Affiliated Research
Centers.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(8) Naval Supply Systems Command (NAVSUPSYSCOM)
is responsible for awarding and administering contracts in support
of assigned logistics support functions. NAVSUPSYSCOM’s unique contracting
responsibilities include procuring supplies and services for all
non-contracting Navy activities, offices or commands for which no
other HCA is delegated authority.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(9) Office of Naval Research (ONR) is responsible
for awarding and administering contracts and other instruments for assigned
DON Science and Technology (S&amp;T) research. ONR unique contracting
responsibilities include the award and administration of contracts
to the Navy’s Federally Funded Research Development Center (FFRDC).</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(10) Naval Information Warfare Systems
Command (NAVWARSYSCOM) is responsible for awarding and administering contracts
in the information dominance domain, including assigned programs
in the areas of research and development, systems engineering and
development, and other relevant professional services associated
with production, installation and sustainment for Command, Control,
Communications, Computers, Intelligence Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Systems
(C4ISR); Joint Tactical Radios Systems (JTRS), Space Systems; Enterprise
Information Systems (EIS); and Navy Chief Information Officer (CIO)
supported information technology initiatives.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(11) Strategic Systems Programs (SSP) is
responsible for awarding and administering contracts in support
of the development, production, and life-cycle support of the TRIDENT
Strategic Weapon System, and other assigned programs under the cognizance
of the Director, SSP (DIRSSP).</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
