<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1123133" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5237.102-90 Enterprise-wide Contractor
Manpower Reporting Application (ECMRA).</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) DOD contracting activities
awarding or administering contracts shall incorporate the following
Enterprise-wide Contractor Manpower Reporting Application (ECMRA)
standard language into all contracts which include services, provided
the organization that is receiving or benefiting from the contracted
service is a Department of Defense organization, including reimbursable
appropriated funding sources from non-DOD executive agencies where
the Defense Component requiring activity is the executive agent
for the function performed. The reporting requirement does not apply
to situations where a Defense Component is merely a contracting
agent for another executive agency. Contracted services excluded
from reporting are based on Product Service Codes (PSCs). The excluded
PSCs are:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) W, Lease/Rental of Equipment;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) X, Lease/Rental of Facilities;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) Y, Construction of Structures and Facilities;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(4) D, Automatic Data Processing and Telecommunications,
IT and Telecom- Telecommunications Transmission (D304) and Internet
(D322) ONLY;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(5) S, Utilities ONLY;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(6) V, Freight and Shipping ONLY.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b)The standard language to be inserted
is:</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">“The contractor shall report contractor
labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for performance
of services provided under this contract for the [NAMED COMPONENT]
via a secure data collection site. Contracted services excluded from
reporting are based on Product Service Codes (PSCs). The excluded
PSCs are:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) W, Lease/Rental of Equipment;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) X, Lease/Rental of Facilities;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) Y, Construction of Structures and Facilities;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(4) D, Automatic Data Processing and Telecommunications,
IT and Telecom- Telecommunications Transmission (D304) and Internet
(D322) ONLY;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(5) S, Utilities ONLY;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(6) V, Freight and Shipping ONLY.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">The contractor is required to completely
fill in all required data fields using the following web address:
https://psctool.us.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Reporting inputs will be for the labor
executed during the period of performance during each Government
fiscal year (FY), which runs October 1 through September 30. While
inputs may be reported any time during the FY, all data shall be
reported no later than October 31 of each calendar year. Contractors
may direct questions to the help desk, linked at https://psctool.us.</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
