<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1014987" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5206.3031 Requirements.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a)(i) Prior to contract award.
After a justification has been approved but prior to contract award,
an amended justification may be submitted when new procurement work
is identified and the authority remains unchanged from the original
justification.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) Clearly identify the dollar increase
and all new procurement work.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) If the revised total value of the amended
justification exceeds the original justification’s ap<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?>proving authority,
the contracting officer shall submit the amended justification to
the appropriate approving authority based on the revised total value.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii) After contract award. A new justification
is required. New procurement work shall not commence until a new
justification is approved unless authorized under FAR 6.302-2, Unusual
and Compelling Urgency.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(d)(1) A justification shall only be approved
on a class basis when it is authorizing new procurement work on
two or more procurements which cite the same authority for other
than full and open competition. Multiyear contracts and contracts with
priced options are considered individual contract actions. A justification
made on a class basis--</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(A) May cover one or more contractors;</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(B) May cover requirements solicited in
successive fiscal years, provided the requirements and quantities
are included in the justification, and their costs have been specifically
identified.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(C) Shall include only those requirements
that are, and will remain, sole or limited source for the period
covered by the justification.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(D) May include, but is not limited to:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(i) A BOA and orders to be issued under
it,</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Consecutive years of production buys
that may be solicited separately.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Multiple contracts to provide Government
Furnished Equipment (GFE) for assembly into an end item.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(E) Shall address in every section, each
contract included in the class justification with supporting detail
(e.g., specific quantity and dollar amounts for each contract; detailed
documentation of the circumstances supporting the use of the other
than full and open competitive procedures for each contracting action).</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) Issuance of a contract under FAR 16.5
does not require a class J&amp;A.</p>
                  <p id="i1014991" outputclass="Normal"> (S-90) Approval and Authorization
for Bridge Contracts.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) Approval and authorization to award
a bridge contract, a non-competitive contract awarded to “bridge”
the time between the end of one contract and the beginning of another
related contract, shall be obtained prior to requesting a J&amp;A.
Annex 5, Bridge Contract Approval and Reporting,</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">contains the prescribed format for the
request for approval. The approval authorities for bridge contract
actions are:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) $700,000 or less - The Activity CCO</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) Greater than or equal to $700,000 but
less than $5,500,000 - Echelon I/II CCO</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) Greater than or equal to $5,500,000
- HCA</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) For the purposes of approving bridge
contracts, HCAs designated as an Echelon III command shall have
the same approval authority as those designated as an Echelon II
command.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) This approval authority is only delegable
one level.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(d) Once approval to award a bridge contract
is obtained, a J&amp;A for other than full and op<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?>en competition
shall also be approved in accordance with FAR 6.303/6.304 and DFARS</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">206.303/206.304. If approval of the J&amp;A
negates consideration under SeaPort, see 5206.304 and</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">5206.305. This applies if the contract
for which a bridge is being sought would have been considered for
transition to SeaPort but for the bridge.</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
