<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <topic id="i1063874"
          domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
          ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
          class="- topic/topic ">
      <title outputclass="Heading1" class="- topic/title ">ANNEX 20 – INDIVIDUAL STREAMLINED
ACQUISITION PLAN WITH SERVICES (ISTRAP-M)</title>
      <body class="- topic/body ">
         <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(Classification: UNCLASSIFIED/FOR
OFFICIAL USE ONLY)</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Acquisition Plan Number: __________ Rev:
_______</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Program Title: ________________________________________________
ACAT_____</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Acquisition Manager: __________________________________________
Code _____</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">APPROVED BY:</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">[insert typed name of the Approving Official
(include title). If DASN(P) or Date</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">SSM is the Approving Official, insert
“DASN(P)” ]</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">RECOMMEND APPROVAL:</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">[insert typed name of the HCA, PEO, or
DRPM (include title) if not the Date</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Approving Official.]</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">[insert typed name of the Chief of Contracting
Office] Date</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">[insert typed name of the Contracting
Officer and phone number] Date</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">______________________________________________________________
____________</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">[insert typed name of the Program Manager
and phone number] Date</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">This STRAP will be reviewed for possible
revision no less often than annually in accordance with FAR 7.104.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT B: Distribution
authorized to U.S. Government agencies only (fill in reason) (date
of determination). Other requests for this document shall be referred
to ________ (insert controlling office).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">ISTRAP-M FORMAT AND CONTENT</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Section 1: Acquisition Background and
Objectives.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.1 Statement of need. Introduce the plan
by a brief statement of need. Include status of any applicable Acquisition
Strategy, Acquisition Decision Memorandum, Defense Acquisition Board,
Service Requirements Review Board, and/or any other internal service
reviews.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.2 Historical Summary. Summarize the
technical and contractual history of the acquisition. Include contracts
awarded for major end items or services for the past five years,
contract number, contractor, contract type, description (title only),
quantities, period of performance, historical or estimated contract
value and whether a sole source or competitive contract award.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.3 Technical Data.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.3.1 Define the overall program objectives,
by program phase, for the acquisition of the technical data, including
the major types of data to be acquired.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.3.2 Discuss the requirements for contractor
data (including repurchase data) and data rights, their estimated
cost, and the use to be made of the data. Explain how the use of
the technical data and data rights will be used to sustain competition.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.3.3 Discuss the results of cost effectiveness
analyses of buying contractor data as it relates to achieving the
program’s objectives.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.3.4 Discuss validation of the technical
data package.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.3.5 Where applicable and when considered
a significant element of the acquisition, define how patents and
copyrights will be addressed within the contract.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1.4 Funding. Identify funding to support
the action by fiscal year and appropriation.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Section 2: Acquisition Considerations.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.1 Product or Services Description.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.1.1 In your description of the product
or service, explain the choice of product or service description
code ensuring it aligns with the DOD taxonomy associated with the
acquisition of services, supplies and equipment. (See USD(ATL) memorandum entitled,
“Taxonomy for the Acquisition of Services and Supplies &amp; Equipment”
dated August 27, 2012). DPC provides the PSC Selection Tool, available
at https://psctool.us to assist in the correct PSC selection.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.1.2 Specify the required capabilities
or performance characteristics of the supplies or the performance
standards of the services being acquired. Address whether the supplies
to be acquired are critical items (as defined in FAR 46.101) and
whether higher-level quality standards are necessary. For IT Services,
discuss any cybersecurity requirements that are inconsistent with DOD
policies.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.1.3 Describe the basis for and factors
considered in establishing delivery schedule or period of performance.
Include the rationale for the appropriate period of performance
relative to the type of Services procurement.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.1.4 Provide rationale if procuring services
that are not performance-based. If an exception is granted by a
regulation, state “An exception is granted to performance-based
acquisitions per [state the specific regulation reference.]”</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.2 Cost.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.2.1 Identify the estimated cost for
each option/phase for acquisitions that contemplate the use of options
or a multiple phased approach.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.2.2 Provide the basis for the Independent
Government Cost Estimate, including any option(s).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.2.3 Discuss the potential to acquire
a higher quantity of an end item than the quantity specified in
law providing for the funding of that acquisition (Buy to Budget).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3 Sources.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.1 Indicate the prospective sources
of supplies or services that can meet the need.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.2 Address the extent and results of
the market research.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.3 Discuss how required sources of
supplies or services, the functional areas specified in Annex 22
(excluding requirements covered by an exception listed at 5237.102),
AbilityOne</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">AbilityOne and Federal Prison Industries,
were considered. Discuss the availability of other sources identifiable
through databases including the Government-wide database of contracts
and other procurements instruments intended for use by multiple agencies
available at https://www.contractdirectory.gov/contractdirectory/
and AbilityOne sources at http://www.abilityone.gov/procurement_list/index.html.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.4 Discuss the consideration of small
businesses. Clearly identify how small business will be utilized
to meet program or contract requirements, as either a prime contractor
or through the use of subcontract provisions.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.5 Discuss the impact of any bundling
or consolidation that might affect small business participation
in the acquisition. When the proposed acquisition strategy involves
bundling, identify the incumbent contractors and contracts affected
by the bundling.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6 Major defense acquisition programs
(MDAPs) shall address the following:</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.1 An analysis of the capabilities
of the national technology and industrial base to develop, produce,
maintain, and support such program, including--</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) The availability of essential raw
materials, special alloys, composite materials, components, tooling,
and production test equipment for the sustained production of systems
fully capable of meeting the performance objectives established
for those systems; the uninterrupted maintenance and repair of such
systems; and the sustained operation of such systems.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) The identification of supplies that
are available only from sources outside the national technology
and industrial base.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(c) The availability of alternatives for
obtaining such supplies from within the national technology and
industrial base if such supplies become unavailable from sources
outside the national technology and industrial base; and an analysis
of any military vulnerability that could result from the lack of
reasonable alternatives.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(d) The effects on the national technology
and industrial base that result from foreign acquisition of firms
in the United States.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.2 Consideration of requirements
for efficient manufacture during the design and production of the
systems to be procured under the program.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.3 The use of advanced manufacturing
technology, processes, and systems during the research and development
phase and the production phase of the program.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.4 To the maximum extent practicable,
the use of contract solicitations that encourage competing offerors
to acquire, for use in the performance of the contract, modern technology,
production equipment, and production systems (including hardware
and software) that increase the productivity of the offerors and
reduce the life-cycle costs.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.5 Methods to encourage investment
by U.S. domestic sources in advanced manufacturing technology production
equipment and processes through—</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) Recognition of the contractor’s investment
in advanced manufacturing technology production equipment, processes,
and organization of work systems that build on workers’ skill and
experience, and work force skill development in the development of
the contract objective; and</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) Increased emphasis in source selection
on the efficiency of production.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.6 Expanded use of commercial manufacturing
processes rather than processes specified by DOD.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.7 Elimination of barriers to, and
facilitation of, the integrated manufacture of commercial items
and supplies being produced under DOD contracts.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.8 Expanded use of commercial items,
commercial items with modifications, or to the extent commercial
items are not available, nondevelopmental items.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.9 Acquisition of major weapon systems
as commercial items.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.10 Provide the program’s Industrial
Capability (IC) strategy that assesses the capability of the U.S.
industrial base to achieve identified surge and mobilization goals.
If no IC strategy has been developed, provide supporting rationale
for this position.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) If, in the IC strategy, the development
of a detailed IC plan was determined to be applicable, include the
plan by text or by reference. If the development of the IC plan
was determined not to be applicable, summarize the details of the
analysis forming the basis of this decision.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) If the program involves peacetime
and wartime hardware configurations that are supported by logistics
support plans, identify their impact on the IC plan.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.11 Assess the long-term
technical data and computer software needs of those systems and
subsystems and establish an acquisition strategy that provides for
the technical data and computer software deliverables and associated
license rights needed to sustain those systems and subsystems over
their life cycle. The strategy may include—</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a)  The development
of maintenance capabilities within DOD; or</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Competition for
contracts for sustainment of the systems or subsystems. </p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.6.12 Include a plan for the preservation
and storage of special tooling associated with the production of
hardware for MDAPs through the end of the service life of the related
weapons system. The plan shall include the identification of any
contract clauses, facilities, and funding required for the preservation
and storage of such tooling.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normalwithline" class="- topic/p ">2.3.7 Discuss the use of category
management, including strategic sourcing. Address whether the requirement
can be achieved through an existing Federal, DOD, or DON contract
vehicle. If establishing a new contract vehicle when a similar solution
exists, include supporting information to justify why it is necessary
to meet the requirement. In addition, address category management tier
solutions and Analysis of Alternative (AoA) requirements, as defined
by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) memorandum M-19-13,
for all common requirements.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.3.8 For IT Services acquisitions, discuss
how it was determined that no private sector or government source
can better support the function.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.4 Competition.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.4.1 Describe how competition will be
sought, promoted, and sustained throughout the course of the acquisition.
If full and open competition is not contemplated, cite the appropriate
FAR authority. Discuss the basis for the application of that authority, identify
the source(s), and discuss why full and open competition cannot
be obtained.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.4.2 Identify any known barriers to increasing
subcontract competition and address how to overcome them, if possible.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.4.3 Address any restrictions on foreign
participation at the prime or subcontract level.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.4.4 For STRAPs for contracts under a
MDAP, discuss how the following measures were considered:</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) Competitive prototyping.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) Dual-sourcing.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(c) Unbundling of contracts.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(d) Funding of next-generation prototype
systems or subsystems.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(e) Use of modular, open architectures
to enable competition for upgrades.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(f) Use of build-to-print approaches to
enable production through multiple sources.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(g) Acquisition of complete technical
data packages.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(h) Periodic competitions for subsystem
upgrades.</p>
            <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Licensing of additional suppliers.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(j) Periodic system or program reviews
to address long-term competitive effects of program decisions.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.4.5 Participation Decision Points (Services
Contracts).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.4.5.1 Discuss how effective competition
will be maintained throughout the life of the contract.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.4.5.2 For services contracts with a
period of performance longer than 5 years, discuss the use of on-ramps
and off-ramps (entry and exit points), if applicable, to ensure
the availability and viability of a qualified pool of contractors.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.5 Contract type selection.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.5.1 Discuss the rationale for the selection
of contract type. Provide an analysis of why the use of that contract
type is appropriate (e.g., complexity of the requirements, uncertain
duration of the work, contractor’s technical capability and financial responsibility,
or adequacy of the contractor’s accounting system). Discuss the
opportunity to transition from cost type to fixed priced contracts,
if applicable. Provide rationale if procuring services that are
performance-based and a contract type other than a firm-fixed price
is contemplated.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.5.2 Discuss the use and authority of
multi-year contracting or other special contracting methods.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.5.3 Discuss any applicable FAR or DFARS
deviations that will be required.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.5.4 Discuss why any equipment will be
acquired by lease, if applicable.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.6 Source-selection procedures.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.6.1 Explain the type of source selection
procedure being contemplated (i.e., Lowest Price Technically Acceptable
(LPTA), Price/Technical Tradeoff or Value Adjusted Total Evaluated
Price (VATEP)) in the evaluation of proposals and source selection.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "/>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.6.2 Discuss why the choice is appropriate
and in the best interest of the Government.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.7 Milestones for the acquisition cycle.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.7.1 For all acquisitions, provide the
dates for the following milestones:</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) Services Requirements Review Board;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) For IT Services, Clinger-Cohen Act
Certification;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(c) Purchase request receipt;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(d) Issuance of solicitation;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(e) Contract award.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.7.2 For ACAT I - IV programs, also provide
the dates for the following milestones:</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) MDA approval of the Technology Development
Strategy;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) Completion of the Pre-EMD Review;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(c) Completion of all Milestone B requirements;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(d) MDA approval of the Acquisition Strategy
and RFP;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(e) Completion of any applicable peer
review.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.8 Performance evaluation.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.8.1 Describe the plan for evaluating
performance metrics or other measures to identify what has been
achieved. Such measures shall include thresholds for cost, schedule
and performance.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.8.2 Discuss the Government process for
tracking and overseeing contractor delivery. (Applicable to the
Services portion of the requirement).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.8.3 Discuss how the Government Team
will use the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) to monitor
contractor performance. (Applicable to the Services portion of the
requirement).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.8.4 Identify the personnel responsible
for assessing and reporting contractor performance into the Contractor
Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.9 Contract Management and Administration</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.9.1 Identify the organization performing
contract administration functions.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.9.2 Discuss existing or proposed management
approach for contract administration.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.9.3 Contracting Officer’s Representative
(COR)</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(a) Discuss the COR qualifications to
support effective contract management and oversight.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(b) Discuss COR workload management to
ensure effective job performance (e.g., number of contracts managed,
other duties assigned, etc.).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.10 Requirements Validation (Applicable
to the Services portion of the requirement)</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.10.1 Discuss the Government process
to ensure contractors are not performing inherently governmental
functions or functions closely associated with inherently governmental
functions. If the contract does contain functions closely associated
with inherently governmental functions, discuss the safeguards planned
to ensure effective management of contractor personnel in these
positions.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.10.2 Discuss the Government process
to ensure contractors are not performing personal services. If the
contract does contain requirements requiring personal services,
discuss the safeguards planned to ensure effective management of
contractor personnel in these positions.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.10.3 Discuss the Government process
to address an organizational conflict of interest (if applicable).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">2.11 Service Acquisition Workshop (SAW).
For Services acquisitions above the threshold defined in 5237.192(a),
discuss use of the SAW (include the anticipated participants in
the multi-</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">functional team) to maximize SAW benefits.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Section 3: Program Risks.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Risks. Discuss technical, cost, and schedule
risks and describe what efforts are planned or underway to reduce
risk and the consequences of failure to achieve goals. If concurrency
of development and production is planned, discuss its effects on
cost and schedule risks.</p>
         </conbody>
      </body>
   </topic>
</dita>
