<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1032168" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5219.804-1 Agency evaluation.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(f) Agency reviews, in addition
to the factors in FAR 19.803(a), may take the form of a technical
presentation or should be structured in a manner that affords an
exchange of information between the 8(a) firm and the contracting
activity that will provide the 8(a) firm an adequate opportunity
to demonstrate its capability and capacity to perform the requirement.
For sole source 8(a) contracts, SBA regulations preclude the use
of formal technical evaluations. Contracting officers, however,
may conduct informal assessments of several 8(a) firms' capabilities
to perform a specific requirement.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(S-90) When a lack of capability or capacity
forms the basis for declination responses to SBA, such responses
shall discuss factors such as the 8(a) contractor candidate's:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) lack of knowledge and understanding
of the work to be performed;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) lack of experience in performing requirements
of similar size and scope;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) lack of resources that are available
(including contingent hires) or that must be acquired for contract
performance;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(4) lack of ability to comply with subcontracting
limitation provisions (see FAR clause 52.21914);</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(5) lack of ability to meet delivery schedules;
and/or</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(6) deficiencies in record of performance.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Contracting activities shall provide a
copy of all 8(a) program declination letters to the Director, OSBP
concurrent with submission to SBA. Declination letters are subject
to direct appeal by the SBA Administrator to the Secretary of the
Navy (see FAR 19.810). Contracting officers should coordinate such
declinations with the activity small business specialist or the
CCO.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal"/>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
