<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1014797" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5203.204 Treatment of violations.</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a)(i) Authority to provide notices,
conduct hearings, and make findings of fact and conclusions of law
concerning alleged violations of the Gratuities clause, including
whether a violation of the Gratuities clause has occurred, has been
delegated to the AGC(AI), without power of redelegation.</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Notification.</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">(A) If the AGC (AI) determines that there
is credible evidence that a violation of the Gratuities clause has
occurred, he or she may commence a proceeding pursuant to this Subpart
by providing written notice to the contractor alleged to be liable
for the purported violation.</p>
               <p outputclass="List4">(B) The AGC (AI) shall ensure that the
notice to the contractor is delivered by hand or sent by registered
or certified mail, or another, similar commercial means. The contractor
has 30 calendar days from receipt of notice to request a hearing.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(b) Hearing. The AGC (AI) shall schedule
any hearing for a date not later than 15 calendar days after the
AGC (AI)’s receipt of the contractor’s request, unless the contractor
requests a later date not to be more than 30 calendar days after
the AGC (AI)’s receipt of the hearing request.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(c) If the AGC (AI) has determined that
a violation has occurred, authority to determine whether to terminate
the contractor’s right to proceed under the contract, and, if so,
whether to assess exemplary damages and in what amount, has been
delegated to DASN(P). The AGC (AI) shall make recommendations to
DASN(P) with respect to terminating the contractor’s right to proceed
under the contract and assessing exemplary damages.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept>
</dita>
