<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita><concept id="i1032090" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">5219.201 General policy.</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a) DON policy is to utilize small
business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business,
and women-owned small business concerns to obtain its requirements.
Such concerns shall have the maximum practicable opportunity to
participate both as prime contractors and as subcontractors.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(c)(8) The HCA shall assign a small business
technical advisor to each office where a resident Small Business
Administration (SBA) procurement center representative is located.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(10)(B) In accordance with ASN(RDA) memorandum
entitled “Small Business Coordination</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">Review Application” dated February 2,
2016, with the exception of SeaPort, contracting officers</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">shall prepare the DD 2579 using the online
Small Business Coordination Review (SBCR) Application (App) and
submit the form to the Small Business Professional via https://psctool.us.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(10)(A) The review requirements are not
applicable to:</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(i) orders placed against single award
indefinite delivery type contracts since the review is performed
prior to award of the basic contract; or</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(ii) awards to small business concerns
under the SBIR Program.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(e) Small business specialists are appointed
in accordance with SECNAVINST 4380.8. Small business specialists:</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) brief the appointing authority quarterly
on implementation of the activity's Small and Disadvantaged Business
Utilization (SBP) program; and</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) conduct SBP program training sessions
to ensure that contracting and technical personnel maintain knowledge
of program requirements.</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">(S-90) Reviews of SBP program implementation
at DON contracting activities are normally conducted as a segment
of the PPMAP reviews (see 5201.691). The Director, OSBP, will establish
guidelines for the PPMAP review SBP segment. PPMAP review SBP segments
should be coordinated with the PPMAP review team leader. For reviews
under 5201.691-2, the Director, OSBP, will designate SBP review
team members. Associate Directors of Small Business are responsible
for implementation of the PPMAP review SBP segment of their field
contracting activities including designating PPMAP review SBP team
members and monitoring compliance with their recommendations. Team
members should generally be Deputies for Small Business from other
than the activity under review. Associate Directors of Small Business
are responsible for providing a copy of the PPMAP review SBP segment
report(s) to the Director, OSBP.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept></dita>