<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita><concept id="i1015003" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">5206.304 Approval of the justification.</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a)(S-90) Notwithstanding FAR
6.304, DFARS 206.304, the HCA is designated as the approval authority
for justifications of 8(a) sole source awards exceeding $100 million.
HCA authority may be delegated to the Deputy/Assistant Commander for
Contracts, without power of redelegation.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a)(1) For contract actions that would
negate the use of SeaPort, the justification shall be</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">approved by the advocate for competition
for the procuring activity.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) DON activities with contracting authority
in excess of $700,000 may be considered "procuring activities" solely
for the purpose of enabling their competition advocate to exercise
this approval authority.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(4) Justifications for ASN(RDA) approval
must be submitted via DASN(P) by email at RDAJ&amp;As.fct@navy.mil
with the subject “[Activity Name] DFARS 206.304(a)(4) – J&amp;A
Approval – Other Than Full and Open Competition”. The signature
page shall be submitted electronically as a .pdf file. The body
of the justification shall be submitted electronically as both Word
and .pdf files.</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(i) The applicable Acquisition Strategy
(or STRAP or MOPAS-S if no Acquisition</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">Strategy exists) shall be submitted with
the justification. The documents should be reviewed concurrent with
preparation of the justification and updated if required. Justifications
and planning documentation should be consistent and any unavoidable discrepancies
highlighted and explained within the document.</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Historic justification information
shall be submitted with the proposed justification.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept></dita>