<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita><concept id="i1033200" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">5233.9001 Claims approval requirements.</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a) All proposed claim settlements
in excess of $25 million, and final decisions of the contracting
officer involving payments in an amount greater than $25 million,
shall be submitted for review and approval to DASN(P) by email at
https://psctool.us with the subject “[Activity Name] NMCARS 5233.9001
– Proposed Claim Settlement &gt;$25M.” Other proposed claim settlements
and final decisions of the contracting officer shall be reviewed
and approved as specified by the HCA.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(b) The supporting documentation submitted
to DASN(P) with respect to claim settlements or final decisions
of a contracting officer shall include a legal memorandum. As a
minimum the required legal memorandum should:</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) Analyze the applicability and adequacy
of the contractor's legal theory or theories of Government liability;</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) Analyze and evaluate the presence and
adequacy of evidentiary facts satisfying the elements of proof required
by such legal theory or theories;</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(3) Analyze the applicability and adequacy
of any affirmative defense the Government may have to the contractor's
claim, e.g., accord and satisfaction, failure of consideration,
fraud, release, laches, statute of limitations; and</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(4) Analyze and evaluate the presence of
any counterclaims the Government may have against the contractor.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(c) No settlement commitment or final decision
may be made prior to obtaining the required approval.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(d) Primary emphasis should be given to
achieving prompt settlement of claims, thereby obviating need for
provisional price increases or payments. Provisional price increases
or provisional payments against contractor claims may be made when the
following documents have been obtained:</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) A legal determination that the contractor
is entitled to compensation.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) Sufficient technical, administrative,
and audit analyses to permit such legal determination; and</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(3) A determination by the contracting
officer with respect to the amount of compensation for which there
is entitlement and that the amount of ultimate entitlement to compensation
will equal or exceed the amount of the provisional price increase
or provisional payment.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(e) When a provisional payment, either
individually or cumulatively against a single claim exceeds $25
million, a written justification shall be submitted for approval
to DASN(P) by email at https://psctool.us with the subject “[Activity
Name] NMCARS 5233.9001 – Proposed Claim Provisional Payment &gt;$25M.”</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">The justification shall cover--</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) the requirements of the claim;</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) the projected date of settlement of
the claim; and</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(3) other pertinent information, including
comments as to whether the contractor has reasonably satisfied all
requests for documentary and analytical support of the claimed amount.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept></dita>