<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1032966" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5231.205-90 Shipbuilding capability
preservation agreements.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) Scope and authority. Where
it would facilitate the achievement of the policy objectives set
forth in 10 U.S.C. 2501(b), the Navy may enter into a shipbuilding
capability preservation agreement with a contractor. As authorized
by Section 1027 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)
for FY 1998 (P.L. 105-85), such an agreement permits the contractor to
claim certain indirect costs attributable to its private sector
work as allowable costs on Navy shipbuilding contracts.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) Definition. “Incremental indirect cost,”
as used in this subsection, means an additional indirect cost that
results from performing private sector work described in a shipbuilding
capability preservation agreement.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) Purpose and guidelines. The purpose
of a shipbuilding capability preservation agreement is to broaden
and strengthen the shipbuilding industrial base by providing an
incentive for a shipbuilder to obtain new private sector work, thereby
reducing the Navy's cost of doing business. The Navy will use the
following guidelines to evaluate requests for shipbuilding capability
preservation agreements:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) ASN(RDA) must make a determination
that an agreement would facilitate the achievement of the policy
objectives set forth in 10 U.S.C. 2501(b). The primary consideration
in making this determination is whether an agreement would promote
future growth in the amount of private sector work that a shipbuilder
is able to obtain.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) An agreement generally will be considered
only for a shipbuilder with little or no private sector work.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) The agreement shall apply to prospective
private sector work only and shall not extend beyond 5 years.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(4) The agreement must project an overall
benefit to the Navy, including net savings. This would be achieved
by demonstrating that private sector work will absorb costs that
otherwise would be absorbed by the Navy.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(d) Cost-reimbursement rules. If the Navy
enters into a shipbuilding capability preservation agreement with
a contractor, the following cost-reimbursement rules apply:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) The agreement shall require the contractor
to allocate the following costs to private sector work:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(i) The direct costs attributable to the
private sector work;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The incremental indirect costs attributable
to the private sector work; and</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The non-incremental indirect costs
to the extent that the revenue attributable to the private sector
work exceeds the sum of the costs specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)
and (d)(1)(ii) of this subsection.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) The agreement shall require that the
sum of the costs specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(1)(iii)
of this subsection not exceed the amount of indirect costs that
would have been allocated to the private sector work in accordance
with the contractor's established accounting practices.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Navy may agree to modify the amount
calculated in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this subsection
if it determines that a modification is appropriate to the particular
situation. In so doing, the Navy may agree to the allocation of
a smaller or larger portion of the amount calculated in accordance
with paragraph (d)(1) of this subsection, to private sector work.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(i) Any smaller amount shall not be less
than the sum of the costs specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and
(d)(1)(ii) of this subsection.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Any larger amount shall not exceed
the sum of the costs specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this subsection
and the amount of indirect costs that would have been allocated
to the private sector work in accordance with the contractor's established
accounting practices.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iii) In determining whether such a modification
is appropriate, the Navy will consider factors such as the impact
of pre-existing firm-fixed-price Navy contracts on the amount of
costs that would be reimbursed by the Navy, the impact of pre-existing
private sector work on the cost benefit that would be received by
the contractor, and the extent to which allocating a smaller or
larger portion of costs to private sector work would provide a sufficient
incentive for the contractor to obtain additional private sector
work.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(e) Procedure. A contractor may submit
a request for a shipbuilding capability preservation agreement,
together with appropriate justification, through the Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Navy for Ships, to ASN(RDA), who has approval or disapproval
authority. The contractor should also provide an informational copy
of any such request to the cognizant administrative contracting
officer.</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
