<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1033176" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5233.204-90 General.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) Multidiscipline approach.
Since claims by contractors often involve difficult and complex
legal, factual and financial issues requiring extensive factfinding
or analysis to determine whether or not the Government is liable,
a multi-disciplined team should generally be established to analyze
the claim.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) Formal and constructive changes.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) When DON actions alleged by the contractor,
after appropriate evaluation, constitute a change, the contracting
officer shall promptly formalize such constructive change(s) in
writing as soon as the parties have negotiated an acceptable adjustment
to the contract price and delivery clauses, irrespective of whether
the contract contains the clause at FAR 52.2437, Notification of
Changes.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) In exceptional cases where disruption,
delay or other claimed impacts are known to exist and cannot be
currently resolved, the contracting activity may proceed with equitable
adjustments covering the interrelated formal changes coupled with
usage or qualified release. The qualified release should specifically
identify the interrelationship with the contractor's claim such
as delay or disruption impacts reserving to the contractor the right
to pursue and demonstrate support for a separate equitable adjustment
therefore under the contract.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) Rejection of "total cost" and "total
time" based claims.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Claims based on "total cost" or "total
time" approaches are considered only as a last resort. A contractor
(claimant) filing a total cost or total time-based claim should
establish that there is no other feasible, acceptable basis for
computing the claimant's increased costs or delays and prove that
there is no way of correlating government actions and omissions
to historical cost elements or even to reasonable substantiated
cost estimates.</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
