<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1122649" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5201.602-3 Ratification of unauthorized
commitments.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b)(1) Within 10 calendar days
of determining the need for a ratification of an unauthorized commitment
(UAC), the activity where the ratifiable action occurred shall report
the UAC to its respective HCA in accordance with the Activity’s
procedures.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b)(3)(i) The HCA (or designee) may delegate
ratification authority as follows:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(A) Actions valued at $50,000 or less -
Not lower than the Activity CCO</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(B) Actions valued at $100,000 or less
- Not lower than the Deputy/Assistant Commander for Contracts</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(C) Actions valued greater than $100,000
– HCA without power of delegation</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(ii) The authority to ratify, at any level,
reverts to the HCA without power of delegation if-- (A) For HCAs
except NAVSUP: The HCA has 15 or more UACs exceeding the micro-
purchase threshold for that FY.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(B) NAVSUP: A Budget Submitting Office
(BSO) supported by NAVSUP has more than four (4) UACs exceeding the
micro-purchase threshold in a FY. Authority for delegation of ratification
authority is by BSO.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(C) When the person committing the UAC
has made, or the contractor performing the UAC has submitted, a
UAC at any point in the past.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(iii) For counting purposes, use the date
that the ratifiable action occurred not the date of reporting.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(iv) The ability to delegate in accordance
with (i) resets at the beginning of each FY.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(v) The HCA shall maintain records of all
ratifications regardless of dollar value and review as part of its
Procurement Performance Management Assessment Program (PPMAP) (see
NMCARS 5201.691).</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(S-90) DON Policy.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) HCAs shall establish procedures for
ratification of UACs.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) When an activity receives a UAC that
falls within another activity’s unique contracting authority (as
defined in 5201.601-90), one of two actions is required to address
the UAC:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) Authority may be requested from the
HCA with the unique contracting authority to address the UAC and
complete the ratification (if necessary); or,</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) The HCA with unique contracting authority
ratifies the UAC or determines it is not a ratifiable action. If
ratification is necessary, a Military Interdepartmental Purchase
Request (MIPR) shall be executed and funded by the activity to which
the employee who committed the UAC belongs. This MIPR shall be provided
to the activity with the unique contracting authority to complete
the ratification.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) The ratifying official and the contracting
officer on the ratified action shall not be the same individual.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(d) DASN(P) reserves the right to request
copies of any documentation at any point in the process.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(e) Reporting.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) The activity executing the ratification
is responsible for reporting.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) Submit a quarterly report of all UACs/ratifications
exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, approved at a level no lower
than the Deputy/Assistant Commander for Contracts, in the format
prescribed in Annex 15 to DASN(P) by e-mail at https://psctool.us
with the subject “NMCARS 5201.602-3(S-90)(e)(2) – Quarterly Ratification
Reporting” by January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31. Negative
reports are required.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) Submit a copy of HCA ratification procedures,
approved at a level no lower than the Deputy/Assistant Commander for
Contracts, to DASN(P) by e-mail at https://psctool.us with the subject
“NMCARS 5201.602-3(S-90)(e)(3) – Ratification Procedures” annually
by March 31.</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
