<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita><concept id="i1122865" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">5217.502-2 The Economy Act.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c)(2) Except for the special
circumstances listed in (S-90(a)) below, and the limitations specified
in (S-90(b)) below, the agency head’s designees for approving D&amp;Fs
for interagency acquisitions are:</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">DASN(P)</p>
                  <p outputclass="Footer">Chief of Naval Research</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Commander, Marine Corps Systems Command</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Commander, Military Sealift Command</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Commander, Naval Air Systems Command</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Commander, Naval Facilities Engineering
Command</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Commander, Naval Sea Systems Command</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Commander, Naval Supply Systems Command</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Commander, Naval Information Warfare Systems
Command</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">Director, Strategic Systems Programs</p>
                  <p id="i1032042" outputclass="Normal">Deputy Commandant for
Installations and Logistics, Headquarters, Marine Corps</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(A) For Economy Act orders that require
no contracting action on the part of the servicing agency, delegation
of this authority to the appropriate level within the organization/claimancy
is encouraged.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List4">(B) For Economy Act orders to non-DOD activities
that require contracting action on the part of the servicing agency, this
authority may not be further delegated except to:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) Affiliated PEOs;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) Affiliated DRPMs;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) Any other SES/Flag/General Officer
within the HCA’s Command structure; and/or</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(4) Commanding Officers of subordinate
activities provided the approval authority does not exceed the activity’s
level of contracting authority.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(S-90) Special Circumstances and Limitations</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) Special Circumstances.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) Approval authority for Economy Act
orders that require a contracting action on the part of the Department
of Transportation’s Volpe Laboratories is not delegated. The Agency
head’s designee to approve D&amp;Fs for these Economy Act orders
is DASN(P). For Economy Act orders that require no contracting action
on the part of the Department of Transportation’s Volpe’s Laboratories,
delegation of this authority to the appropriate level within the
organization/claimancy is encouraged. Submit D&amp;Fs for approval
with a copy of the approved AS, STRAP, or MOPAS-S to DASN(P) by
email at https://psctool.us with the subject “[Activity Name] NMCARS
5217.502(c)(2)(S-90) – DOT Volpe Lab Determination.”</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) HCAs will enter into and administer
all DOD Work For Others (WFO) projects performed at the Department
of Energy (DOE) facilities in accordance with the DOE/DOD MOA except
as the DPC guidance allows for amendment.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) HCAs shall conduct an annual compliance
assessment of DOE WFO orders. Submit the assessment results by December
15 to DASN(P) by email at https://psctool.us with the subject “[Activity
Name] FAR 17.502-2 – Annual DOE WFO Order Compliance Assessment”.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) Limitations. Approval authority of
D&amp;Fs for Interagency Economy Act orders that will result in
a contracting action executed by an agency not subject to the FAR
(e.g. the Central Intelligence Agency, Tennessee Valley Authority,
United States Postal Service, Federal Aviation Administration, and
Library of Congress), is limited to the NSPE, without power of redelegation.
Submit D&amp;Fs for approval with a copy of the approved AS, STRAP,
or MOPAS-S to DASN(P) by email at https://psctool.us with the subject
“[Activity Name] Interagency Economy Act orders by Agency not Subject
to FAR.”</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(S-91) Documentation. Files of approved
orders, including supporting documentation, shall be maintained
at a single location within each activity delegated approval authority.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(S-92) Exceptions. The following are examples
of acquisitions that do not require Economy Act D&amp;Fs:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) Interagency acquisitions from the General
Services Administration conducted under the authority of 40 U.S.C.
Section 321, Acquisition Services Fund;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) Acquisitions conducted pursuant to
DFARS Subpart 208.70, “Coordinated Acquisition”;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) Acquisitions conducted under the authority
of the Project Order Act, 41 U.S.C. Section 23;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(d) Support agreements with another DOD
component that comply with DODINST 4000.19, “Interservice and Intragovernmental
Support”; and</p>
                  <p id="i1032044" outputclass="List1">(e) Interagency acquisitions
from the Library of Congress conducted under the authority of Section
103 of P.L. 106-481 (2 U.S.C. 182c), FEDLINK Revolving Fund.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal"/>
               </conbody>
            </concept></dita>