<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_615_404_4_T48_4043115312">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">615.404-4</ph> Profit.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)(2) It is the Department's policy to use the structured approach for profit/fee analysis contained in the Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) FAR Supplement (see 48 CFR chapter 3), for acquisitions awarded by domestic contracting activities and RPSOs. This document may be accessed from A/OPE's Acquisition Web site (see 601.105-3). Contracting officers shall follow these procedures. HHS Form 674, <i>Structured Approach Profit/Fee Objective,</i> or an equivalent form, may be used to document the profit/fee analysis. If more than one pre-negotiation cost objective is developed (e.g., high and low), a separate form should be completed for each. The contracting officer shall ensure that a written explanation is attached to the form justifying the weights chosen for each cost category or factor. This approach considers the factors outlined in FAR 15.404-4(d).
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)(4)(i)(B) In accordance with a delegation from OBO, overseas posts may request a waiver from A/OPE if post is unable to negotiate a price for architect-engineer services within the six percent price limitation. To obtain a waiver, the contracting officer must send the following information to A/OPE:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(<i>1</i>) Description of project;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(<i>2</i>) Estimated dollar amount, with cost breakdown; and,
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(<i>3</i>) Description of negotiation efforts.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
