<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="DFARS-218.201"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">218.201</ph> Contingency operation.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(1) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Selection, appointment,
and termination of appointment.</i> Contracting officer qualification
requirements pertaining to a baccalaureate degree do not apply to
DoD employees or members of the armed forces who are in a contingency
contracting force. See 201.603-2(2).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(2) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Policy for item unique identification.</i> Contractors
will not be required to provide DoD item unique identification if
the items, as determined by the head of the contracting activity,
are to be used to support a contingency operation. See 211.274-2(b).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(3) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Use of the Governmentwide commercial
purchase card.</i> Governmentwide commercial purchase cards do not
have to be used for purchases valued at or below the micro-purchase
threshold if the purchase or payment is for an overseas transaction
by a contracting officer in support of a contingency operation,
or for training exercises in preparation for overseas contingency,
humanitarian, or peacekeeping operations. See 213.201(g) and 213.270(c)(3)
and (5).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(4) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Governmentwide commercial purchase
card.</i> A contracting office supporting a contingency operation
or a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation may use the Governmentwide
commercial purchase card to make a purchase that exceeds the micro-purchase
threshold but does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold
if certain conditions are met. See 213.301(3).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(5) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Imprest funds and third party drafts.</i> Imprest
funds are authorized for use without further approval for overseas
transactions at or below the micro-purchase threshold in support
of a contingency operation or a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation.
See 213.305-3(d)(iii)(A).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(6) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Standard Form (SF) 44, Purchase
Order-Invoice-Voucher.</i> SF 44s may be used for purchases not
exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold for overseas transactions
by contracting officers in support of a contingency operation or
a humanitarian or peacekeeping operation. See 213.306(a)(1)(B).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(7) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Only one offer.</i> The requirements
at sections 215.371-2 do not apply to acquisitions, as determined
by the head of the contracting activity, in support of a contingency
operation. See 215.371-4(a)(2).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(8) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Approval of determination and findings
for time-and-materials or labor-hour contracts.</i> The approval
requirements in paragraphs (d)(i)(A)(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>) and (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">2</i>) of
this section do not apply to contracts that, as determined by the
head of the contracting activity, support contingency. See 216.601(d)(3).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(9) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Undefinitized contract actions.</i> The
head of the agency may waive certain limitations for undefinitized
contract actions if the head of the agency determines that the waiver
is necessary to support a contingency operation or a humanitarian
or peacekeeping operation. See 217.7404-5(b).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(10) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Prohibited sources.</i> DoD personnel
are authorized to make emergency acquisitions in direct support
of U.S. or allied forces deployed in military contingency, humanitarian,
or peacekeeping operations in a country or region subject to economic
sanctions administered by the Department of the Treasury, Office
of Foreign Assets Control. See 225.701-70.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(11) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Authorization Acts, Appropriations
Acts, and other statutory restrictions on foreign acquisition.</i> Acquisitions
in the following categories are not subject to the restrictions
of 225.7002, Restrictions on food, clothing, fabrics, specialty
metals, and hand or measuring tools: (1) Acquisitions at or below
the simplified acquisition threshold; (2) Acquisitions outside the
United States in support of combat operations; (3) Acquisitions
of perishable foods by or for activities located outside the United
States for personnel of those activities; (4) Acquisitions of food,
specialty metals, or hand or measuring tools in support of contingency
operations, or for which the use of other than competitive procedures
has been approved on the basis of unusual and compelling urgency
in accordance with FAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-206.303-2"
                  href="206.303-2.dita#DFARS-206.303-2">6.302-2</xref>; (5) Emergency acquisitions by activities
located outside the United States for personnel of those activities;
and (6) Acquisitions by vessels in foreign waters. See 225.7002-2.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(12) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Electronic submission and processing
of payment requests.</i> Contractors do not have to submit payment
requests in electronic form for contracts awarded by deployed contracting
officers in the course of military operations, including contingency
operations or humanitarian or peacekeeping operations. See 232.7002(a)(4).</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
