<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="DFARS-218.170"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">218.170</ph> Additional acquisition
flexibilities.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Additional acquisition flexibilities available to DoD
are as follows:</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Circumstances permitting other than
full and open competition.</i>Use of the authority at <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 6.302-2</ph>, Unusual and compelling urgency,
may be appropriate under certain circumstances. See PGI <ph xtrc="PGIxref" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     href="PGI_206.302-2.dita#DFARS-PGI_PGI_206.302-2"
                     base="DFARS-PGI_PGI_206.302-2"
                     class="- topic/xref "/>
            </ph>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Use of advance Military Interdepartmental
Purchase Request (MIPR)</i>. For urgent requirements, the advance
MIPR may be transmitted electronically. See PGI <ph xtrc="PGIxref" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     href="PGI_208.7004-3.dita#DFARS-PGI_PGI_208.7004-3"
                     base="DFARS-PGI_PGI_208.7004-3"
                     class="- topic/xref "/>
            </ph>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Use of the Governmentwide commercial
purchase card.</i> Governmentwide commercial purchase cards do not
have to be used for purchases valued at or below the micro-purchase
threshold if the place of performance is entirely outside the United
States. See <ph xtrc="DFARxref" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     href="213.270.dita#DFARS-213.270"
                     base="DFARS-213.270"
                     class="- topic/xref "/>
            </ph>(c)(1).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Master agreement for repair and
alteration of vessels.</i> The contracting officer, without soliciting
offers, may issue a written job order for emergency work to a contractor
that has previously executed a master agreement, when delay would endanger
a vessel, its cargo or stores, or when military necessity requires
immediate work on a vessel. See 217.7103-4, 252.217-7010, and PGI
217.7103-4.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Spare parts breakout program.</i> An
urgent immediate buy need not be delayed if an evaluation of the
additional information cannot be completed in time to meet the required
delivery date. See PGI 217.7506, paragraph 1-105(e).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Storage and disposal of toxic and
hazardous materials.</i> Under certain emergency situations, exceptions
apply with regard to the prohibition on storage or disposal of non-DoD-owned
toxic or hazardous materials on DoD installations. See 223.7102(a)(3)
and (7).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Authorization Acts, Appropriations
Acts, and other statutory restrictions on foreign acquisition.</i> Acquisitions
in the following categories are not subject to the restrictions
of 225.7002, Restrictions on food, clothing, fabrics, specialty
metals, and hand or measuring tools: (1) Acquisitions at or below
the simplified acquisition threshold; (2) Acquisitions outside the
United States in support of combat operations; (3) Acquisitions
of perishable foods by or for activities located outside the United
States for personnel of those activities; (4) Acquisitions of food,
specialty metals, or hand or measuring tools in support of contingency
operations, or for which the use of other than competitive procedures
has been approved on the basis of unusual and compelling urgency
in accordance with FAR 6.302-2; (5) Emergency acquisitions by activities
located outside the United States for personnel of those activities;
and (6) Acquisitions by vessels in foreign waters. See 225.7002-2.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Rights in technical data.</i> The
agency head may notify a person asserting a restriction that urgent
or compelling circumstances (e.g., emergency repair or overhaul)
do not permit the Government to continue to respect the asserted
restriction. See 227.7102-2; 227.7103-5; 227.7103-13; 227.7104;
227.7203-13; 252.227-7013; 252.227-7014; 252.227-7015; 252.227-7018;
and 252.227-7037.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(i) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Tax exemption in Spain.</i> If copies
of a contract are not available and duty-free import of equipment
or materials is urgent, the contracting officer may send the Joint
United States Military Group copies of the Letter of Intent or a
similar document indicating the pending award. See PGI 229.7001.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(j) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Electronic submission and processing
of payment requests.</i> Exceptions to the use of Wide Area WorkFlow
are at 232.7002(a).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(k) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Mortuary services.</i> In an epidemic
or other emergency, the contracting activity may obtain services
beyond the capacity of the contractor's facilities from other sources.
See 237.7003(a) and 252.237-7003.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
