<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="DFARS-219.7103-2"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">219.7103-2</ph> Contracting officer
responsibilities.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">Contracting officers must -</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) Negotiate an advance agreement on the
treatment of developmental assistance costs for either credit or
reimbursement if the mentor firm proposes such an agreement, or
delegate authority to negotiate to the administrative contracting
officer (see FAR 31.109).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Modify (without consideration) applicable
contract(s) to incorporate the clause at 252.232-7005, Reimbursement
of Subcontractor Advance Payments - DoD Pilot Mentor-Protégé Program,
when a mentor firm provides advance payments to a protégé firm under
the Program and the mentor firm requests reimbursement of advance
payments.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) Modify (without consideration) applicable
contract(s) to incorporate other than customary progress payments
for protégé firms in accordance with FAR 32.504(c) if a mentor firm
provides such payments to a protégé firm and the mentor firm requests
reimbursement.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Modify applicable contract(s) to establish
a contract line item for reimbursement of developmental assistance
costs if -</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) A DoD program manager or the cognizant
Component Director, SBP, has made funds available for that purpose;
and</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The contractor has an approved mentor-protégé
agreement.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Negotiate and award a separate contract
for reimbursement of developmental assistance costs only if -</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Funds are available for that purpose;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The contractor has an approved mentor-protégé
agreement; and</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) The cognizant Component Director, SBP,
has made a determination in accordance with 219.7102(c)(1)(ii).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Not authorize reimbursement for costs
of assistance furnished to a protégé firm in excess of $1,000,000
in a fiscal year unless a written determination from the cognizant
Component Director, SBP, is obtained.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g) Advise contractors of reporting requirements
in <ph xtrc="DFARxref" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:TEXT"
                     href="Appendix_I.dita#Appendix_I"
                     class="- topic/xref "/>
            </ph>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h) Provide a copy of the approved Mentor-Protégé
agreement to the Defense Contract Management Agency administrative contracting
officer responsible for conducting the annual performance review
(see appendix I, section I-113).</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
