<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="DFARS-225.1101"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">225.1101</ph> Acquisition of supplies.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Use the basic or the alternate
of the provision at 252.225-7000, Buy American - Balance of Payments
Program Certificate, instead of the provision at FAR 52.225-2, Buy
American Certificate, in any solicitation, including solicitations using
FAR <xref outputclass="fm:Part"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-PART_212"
                  href="PART_212.dita#DFARS-PART_212">part 12</xref> procedures for the acquisition of commercial items,
that includes the basic or the alternate of the clause at 252.225-7001,
Buy American and Balance of Payments Program. If the solicitation
includes the provision at FAR 52.204-7, do not separately list the
provision 252.225-7000 in the solicitation.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Use the basic provision when the solicitation
includes the basic clause at 252.225-7001.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Use the alternate I provision when
the solicitation includes alternate I of the clause at 252.225-7001.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)(i) Use the basic or the alternate of
the clause at 252.225-7001, Buy American Act and Balance of Payments
Program, instead of the clause at FAR 52.225-1, Buy American - Supplies,
in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts
using FAR <xref outputclass="fm:Part"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-PART_212"
                  href="PART_212.dita#DFARS-PART_212">part 12</xref> procedures for the acquisition of commercial items,
unless -</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A) All line items will be acquired from
a particular source or sources under the authority of FAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-206.303-70"
                  href="206.303-70.dita#DFARS-206.303-70">6.302-3</xref>;</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B) All line items require domestic or
qualifying country end products in accordance with subpart 225.70,
but note that this exception does not apply if subpart 225.70 only
requires manufacture of the end product in the United States or
in the United States or Canada, without a corresponding requirement
for use of domestic components;</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C) The acquisition is for supplies for
use within the United States and an exception to the Buy American
statute applies, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g.,</i> nonavailability or public interest
(see FAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-225.170"
                  href="225.170.dita#DFARS-225.170">25.103</xref> and 225.103);</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D) The acquisition is for supplies for
use outside the United States and an exception to the Balance of
Payments Program applies (see 225.7501);</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E) One or more of the basic or the alternates
of the following clauses will apply to all line items in the contract:</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>) 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">2</i>) 252.225-7036, Buy American -
Free Trade Agreements - Balance of Payments Program; or</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(F) All line items will be acquired using
a procedure specified in 225.7703-1(a).</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Use the basic clause if the acquisition
is not of end products listed in 225.401-70 in support of operations
in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Use the alternate I clause when the
acquisition is of end products listed in 225.401-70 in support of
operations in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Use the clause at 252.225-7002, Qualifying
Country Sources as Subcontractors, in solicitations and contracts
that include the basic or one of the alternates of the following
clauses:</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) 252.225-7001, Buy American and Balance
of Payments Program.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) 252.225-7036, Buy American - Free
Trade Agreements - Balance of Payments Program.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) Use the clause at 252.225-7013, Duty-Free
Entry, instead of the clause at FAR 52.225-8. Do not use the clause
for acquisitions of supplies that will not enter the customs territory
of the United States.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5) Use the basic or the alternate of the
provision at 252.225-7020, Trade Agreements Certificate, instead
of the provision at FAR 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate,
in solicitations, including solicitations using FAR <xref outputclass="fm:Part"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-PART_212"
                  href="PART_212.dita#DFARS-PART_212">part 12</xref> procedures for
the acquisition of commercial items, that include the basic or alternate
II of the clause at 252.225-7021, Trade Agreements. If the solicitation
includes the provision at FAR 52.204-7, do not separately list the
provision 252.225-7020 in the solicitation.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Use the basic provision if the solicitation
includes the basic clause at 252.225-7021.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Use the alternate I provision if the
solicitation includes alternate II of the clause at 252.225-7021.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6) Except as provided in paragraph (6)(iv)
of this section, use the basic or an alternate of the clause at
252.225-7021, Trade Agreements, instead of the clause at FAR 52.225-5,
Trade Agreements, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations
and contracts using FAR <xref outputclass="fm:Part"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-PART_212"
                  href="PART_212.dita#DFARS-PART_212">part 12</xref> procedures for the acquisition of
commercial items, if the World Trade Organization Government Procurement
Agreement applies, i.e., the acquisition is of end products listed
at 225.401-70, the value of the acquisition equals or exceeds $182,000,
and none of the exceptions at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-225.401"
                  href="225.401.dita#DFARS-225.401">25.401</xref>(a) applies.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Use the basic clause in solicitations
and contracts that are not of end products in support of operations
in Afghanistan, or that include the clause at 252.225-7024, Requirement
for Products or Services from Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Use the alternate II clause in solicitations
and contracts that do not include the clause at 252.225-7024, Requirement for
Products or Services from Afghanistan, when the acquisition is of
end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Do not use the basic or an alternate
of the clause if -</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A) Purchase from foreign sources is restricted,
unless the contracting officer anticipates a waiver of the restriction; or</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B) The clause at 252.225-7026, Acquisition
Restricted to Products or Services from Afghanistan, is included
in the solicitation and contract.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(iv) The acquisition of eligible and noneligible
products under the same contract may result in the application of
trade agreements to only some of the items acquired. In such case,
indicate in the Schedule those items covered by the Trade Agreements
clause.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(7) Use the provision at 252.225-7032,
Waiver of United Kingdom Levies - Evaluation of Offers, in solicitations
if a U.K. firm is expected to -</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Submit an offer; or</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Receive a subcontract exceeding $1
million.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(8) Use the clause at 252.225-7033, Waiver
of United Kingdom Levies, in solicitations and contracts if a U.K.
firm is expected to -</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Submit an offer; or</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Receive a subcontract exceeding $1
million.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(9) Use the basic or an alternate of the
provision at 252.225-7035, Buy American - Free Trade Agreements
- Balance of Payments Program Certificate, instead of the provision
at FAR 52.225-4, Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli
Trade Act Certificate, in solicitations, including solicitations
using FAR <xref outputclass="fm:Part"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-PART_212"
                  href="PART_212.dita#DFARS-PART_212">part 12</xref> procedures for the acquisition of commercial items,
that include the basic or an alternate of the clause at 252.225-7036,
Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Balance of Payments Program.
If the solicitation includes the provision at FAR 52.204-7, do not
separately list the provision 252.225-7035 in the solicitation.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Use the basic provision in solicitations
when the basic of the clause at 252.225-7036 is used.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Use the alternate I provision when
the solicitation includes alternate I of the clause at 252.225-7036.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Use the alternate II provision when
the solicitation includes alternate II of the clause at 252.225-7036.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv) Use the alternate III provision when
the solicitation includes alternate III of the clause at 252.225-7036.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v) Use the alternate IV provision when
the solicitation includes alternate IV of the clause at 252.225-7036.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vi) Use the alternate V provision when
the solicitation includes alternate V of the clause at 252.225-7036.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(10)(i) Except as provided in paragraph
(10)(ii) of this section, use the basic or an alternate of the clause
at 252.225-7036, Buy American - Free Trade Agreements - Balance
of Payments Program, instead of the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American
- Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act, in solicitations and
contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part
12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial items, for the items
listed at 225.401-70, when the estimated value equals or exceeds
$25,000, but is less than $182,000, unless an exception at FAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="DFARS-225.401"
                  href="225.401.dita#DFARS-225.401">25.401</xref> or 225.401 applies.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A) Use the basic clause in solicitations
and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $100,000,
but is less than $182,000, except if the acquisition is of end products
in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B) Use the alternate I clause in solicitations
and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $25,000,
but is less than $83,099, except if the acquisition is of end products
in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C) Use the alternate II clause in solicitations
and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $100,000, but
is less than $182,000, and the acquisition is of end products in
support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D) Use the alternate III clause in solicitations
and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $25,000, but
is less than $83,099, and the acquisition is of end products in
support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E) Use the alternate IV clause in solicitations
and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $83,099 but
is less than $100,000, except if the acquisition is of end products
in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(F) Use the alternate V clause in solicitations
and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $83,099
but is less than $100,000 and the acquisition is of end products
in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Do not use the basic or an alternate
of the clause in paragraph (10)(i) of this section if -</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A) Purchase from foreign sources is restricted
(see 225.401(a)(2)), unless the contracting officer anticipates
a waiver of the restriction;</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B) Acquiring information technology that
is a commercial item, using fiscal year 2004 or subsequent funds
(Section 535 of Division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2004 (Pub. L. 108-199), and the same provision in subsequent appropriations
acts); or</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C) Using a procedure specified in 225.7703-1(a).</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) The acquisition of eligible and noneligible
products under the same contract may result in the application of
a Free Trade Agreement to only some of the items acquired. In such
case, indicate in the Schedule those items covered by the Buy American
- Free Trade Agreements - Balance of Payments Program clause.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
