<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="DFARS-227.7203-14"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">227.7203-14</ph> Conformity, acceptance,
and warranty of computer software and computer software documentation.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Computer software documentation</i>.
Computer software documentation is technical data. See <ph xtrc="DFARxref" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="227.7103-14.dita#DFARS-227.7103-14"
                     base="i1379728"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">227.7103-14</xref>
            </ph> for
appropriate guidance and statutory requirements.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Computer software</i>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Conformity and acceptance. Solicitations
and contracts requiring the delivery of computer software shall
specify the requirements the software must satisfy to be acceptable.
Contracting officers, or their authorized representatives, are responsible
for determining whether computer software tendered for acceptance
conforms to the contractual requirements. Except for nonconforming
restrictive markings (follow the procedures at <ph xtrc="DFARxref" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="227.7203-12.dita#DFARS-227.7203-12"
                     base="i1379880"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">227.7203-12</xref>
            </ph>(a) if
nonconforming markings are the sole reason computer software tendered
for acceptance fails to conform to contractual requirements), do
not accept software that does not conform in all respects to applicable
contractual requirements. Correction or replacement of nonconforming
software, or an equitable reduction in contract price when correction
or replacement of the nonconforming data is not practicable or is
not in the Government's interests, shall be accomplished in accordance with—</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) The provisions of a contract clause
providing for inspection and acceptance of deliverables and remedies
for nonconforming deliverables; or</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) The procedures at <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR
46.407</ph>(c) through (g), if the contract does not contain an
inspection clause providing remedies for nonconforming deliverables.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Warranties.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Weapon systems. Computer software that
is a component of a weapon system or major subsystem should be warranted
as part of the weapon system warranty. Follow the procedures at <xref href="PGI_246.7.dita#i1497811"
                  base="i1497811"
                  outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref ">246.7</xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Non-weapon systems</i>. Approval
of the chief of the contracting office must be obtained to use a
computer software warranty other than a weapon system warranty.
Consider the factors at <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 46.703</ph> in
deciding whether to obtain a computer software warranty. When approval
for a warranty has been obtained, the clause at <ph xtrc="DFARxref" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="252.246-7001.dita#DFARS-252.246-7001"
                     base="i1384018"
                     outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref ">252.246-7001</xref>
            </ph>, Warranty of
Data, and its alternates, may be appropriately modified for use
with computer software or a procurement specific clause may be developed.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
