<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2">
   <concept id="id2064F0S0NLG"
            outputclass="3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic task)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)                             (topic task strictTaskbody-c)    "
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">F-101</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody id="i1003865" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) This appendix
contains procedures and instructions for the use, preparation, and
distribution of the Wide Area Work Flow (WAWF) Receiving Report
(RR), WAWF Reparable Receiving Report (WAWF RRR), the WAWF Energy
RR, and commercial shipping/packing lists used to document Government
contract quality assurance. The WAWF RR is the electronic equivalent
of the DD Form 250, Material Inspectio<?FM MARKER [Cross-Ref] _GoBack?>n and Receiving Report (MIRR).
The WAWF Energy RR is the electronic equivalent of the DD Form 250
for overland shipments and DD Form 250-1, Tanker/Barge Material
Inspection and Receiving Report, for waterborne shipments. The WAWF
RRR is the electronic equivalent of the DD Form 250 for repair, maintenance,
or overhaul of Government-furnished property.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The use of the DD Form 250 series documents
is on an exception basis (see DFARS <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  href="232.7002.dita#DFARS-232.7002"
                  base="DFARS-232.7002"
                  class="- topic/xref "/>(a))
because use of the WAWF RR is now required by most DoD contracts.
WAWF provides for electronic preparation and documentation of acceptance
of supplies and services, and electronic invoicing. In addition
WAWF allows the printing of a RR that can be used as a packing list
or when a signed copy is required.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
