<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd"><dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"><concept id="i1378114" outputclass="4" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">215.403-1</ph> Prohibition on obtaining certified cost or pricing data (10 U.S.C. 2306a and 41 U.S.C. chapter 35).</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Exceptions to certified cost or pricing data requirements.</i></p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Follow the procedures at <ph xtrc="PGIxref" class="- topic/ph ">PGI 215.403-1</ph>(b).</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Submission of certified cost or pricing data shall not be required in the case of a contract, subcontract, or modification of a contract or subcontract to the extent such data relates to an indirect offset.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Standards for exceptions from certified cost or pricing data requirements</i>.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Adequate price competition.</i></p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  For acquisitions under dual or multiple source programs—</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>)  The determination of adequate price competition must be made on a case-by-case basis.  Even when adequate price competition exists, in  certain cases it may be appropriate to obtain additional data to assist in price analysis; and</p><p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">2</i>)<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "/>Adequate price competition normally exists when¾</p><p outputclass="List7" class="- topic/p "><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(i)</i>  Prices are solicited across a full range of step quantities, normally including a 0-100 percent split, from at least two offerors that are individually capable of producing the full quantity; and</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(ii)</i>  The reasonableness of all prices awarded is clearly established on the basis of price analysis (see <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 15.404-1</ph>(b)).</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  If only one offer is received in response to a competitive solicitation, see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378094" href="DFAR-i1378094.dita#i1378094">215.371-3</xref>.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Commercial items</i>.  </p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Follow the procedures at <ph xtrc="PGIxref" class="- topic/ph ">PGI 215.403-1</ph>(c)(3)(A) for pricing commercial items.</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  By November 30th of each year, departments and agencies shall provide a report to the Director, Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy (DPAP), ATTN: DPAP/CPIC, of all contracting officer determinations that commercial item exceptions apply under <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 15.403-1</ph>(b)(3), during the previous fiscal year, for any contract, subcontract, or modification expected to have a value of $19.5 million or more.  See <ph xtrc="PGIxref" class="- topic/ph ">PGI 215.403-1</ph>(c)(3)(B) for the format and guidance for the report.  The Director, DPAP, will submit a consolidated report to the congressional defense committees.</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  When applying the commercial item exception under <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 15.403-1</ph>(b)(3), see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1385574" href="DFAR-i1385574.dita#i1385574">212.102</xref>(a)(ii) regarding prior commercial item determinations.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Waivers.</i></p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  The head of the contracting activity may, without power of delegation, apply the exceptional circumstances authority when a determination is made that—</p><p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p "><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(1)</i>  The property or services cannot reasonably be obtained under the contract, subcontract, or modification, without the granting of the waiver;</p><p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p "><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(2)</i>  The price can be determined to be fair and reasonable without the submission of certified cost or pricing data; and</p><p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p "><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(3)</i>  There are demonstrated benefits to granting the waiver.  Follow the procedures at <ph xtrc="PGIxref" class="- topic/ph ">PGI 215.403-1</ph>(c)(4)(A) for determining when an exceptional case waiver is appropriate, for approval of such waivers, for partial waivers, and for waivers applicable to unpriced supplies or services.</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  By November 30th of each year, departments and agencies shall provide a report to the Director, DPAP, ATTN: DPAP/CPIC, of all waivers granted under <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 15.403-1</ph>(b)(4), during the previous fiscal year, for any contract, subcontract, or modification expected to have a value of $19.5 million or more.  See <ph xtrc="PGIxref" class="- topic/ph ">PGI 215.403-1</ph>(c)(4)(B) for the format and guidance for the report.  The Director, DPAP, will submit a consolidated report to the congressional defense committees.</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  DoD has waived the requirement for submission of certified cost or pricing data for the Canadian Commercial Corporation and its subcontractors (but see  <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1386180" href="DFAR-i1386180.dita#i1386180">215.408</xref>(3) and <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378989" href="DFAR-i1378989.dita#i1378989">225.870-4</xref>(c)).</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  DoD has waived certified cost or pricing data requirements for nonprofit organizations (including educational institutions) on cost-reimbursement-no-fee contracts.  The contracting officer shall require¾</p><p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p "><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(1)</i>  Submission of data other than certified cost or pricing data to the extent necessary to determine price reasonableness and cost realism; and</p><p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p "><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(2)</i>  Certified cost or pricing data from subcontractors that are not nonprofit organizations when the subcontractor’s proposal exceeds the certified cost or pricing data threshold at <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 15.403-4</ph>(a)(1).</p></conbody></concept></dita>