<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd"><dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"><concept id="i1378203" outputclass="4" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">215.404-71</ph> Weighted guidelines method.</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p "><xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378203" href="DFAR-i1378203.dita#i1378203">215.404-71</xref>-1  General.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  The weighted guidelines method focuses on four profit factors—</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Performance risk;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Contract type risk;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  Facilities capital employed; and</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  Cost efficiency.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  The contracting officer assigns values to each profit factor; the value multiplied by the base results in the profit objective for that factor.  Except for the cost efficiency special factor, each profit factor has a normal value and a designated range of values.  The normal value is representative of average conditions on the prospective contract when compared to all goods and services acquired by DoD.  The designated range provides values based on above normal or below normal conditions.  In the price negotiation documentation, the contracting officer need not explain assignment of the normal value, but should address conditions that justify assignment of other than the normal value.  The cost efficiency special factor has no normal value.  The contracting officer shall exercise sound business judgment in selecting a value when this special factor is used (see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378203" href="DFAR-i1378203.dita#i1378203">215.404-71</xref>-5).</p><p class="- topic/p "><xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378203" href="DFAR-i1378203.dita#i1378203">215.404-71</xref>-2  Performance risk.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Description</i>.  This profit factor addresses the contractor's degree of risk in fulfilling the contract requirements.  The factor consists of two parts:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Technical--the technical uncertainties of performance.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Management/cost control--the degree of management effort necessary—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  To ensure that contract requirements are met; and</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  To reduce and control costs.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Determination</i>.  The following extract from the DD Form 1547 is annotated to describe the process.</p><p class="- topic/p "/><table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="6" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="9*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="33*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="15*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="14*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="5" colname="5" colwidth="14*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="6" colname="6" colwidth="14*" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Assigned</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Assigned</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Base</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Profit</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Item</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Contractor Risk Factors</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Weighting</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Value</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(Item 20)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Objective</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">21.</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Technical</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(1)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(2)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">22.</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Management/</p><p class="- topic/p ">Cost Control</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(1)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(2)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">23.</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Performance Risk</p><p class="- topic/p ">(Composite)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(3)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(4)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(5)</p></entry></row><row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "/><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Assign a weight (percentage) to each element according to its input to the total performance risk.  The total of the two weights equals 100 percent.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Select a value for each element from the list in paragraph (c) of this subsection using the evaluation criteria in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this subsection.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  Compute the composite as shown in the following example:</p><p class="- topic/p "/><table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="9" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="33*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="5" colname="5" colwidth="11*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="6" colname="6" colwidth="11*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="7" colname="7" colwidth="7*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="8" colname="8" colwidth="7*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="9" colname="9" colwidth="7*" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Assigned Weighting</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Assigned Value</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Weighted Value</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Technical</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">60%</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">5.0%</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">3.0%</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Management/</p><p class="- topic/p ">Cost Control</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">40%</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">4.0%</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">1.6%</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Composite Value</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">100%</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">4.6%</p></entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "/><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  Insert the amount from Block 20 of the DD Form 1547.  Block 20 is total contract costs, excluding facilities capital cost of money.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5)  Multiply (3) by (4).</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Values:  Normal and designated ranges</i>.</p><p class="- topic/p "/><table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="27*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="33*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="40*" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Normal Value</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Designated Range</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Standard</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">5%</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">3% to 7%</p></entry></row><row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Technology Incentive</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">9%</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">7% to 11%</p></entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "/><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Standard.</i>  The standard designated range should apply to most contracts.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Technology incentive.</i>  For the technical factor only, contracting officers may use the technology incentive range for acquisitions that include development, production, or application of innovative new technologies.  The technology incentive range does not apply to efforts restricted to studies, analyses, or demonstrations that have a technical report as their primary deliverable.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Evaluation criteria for technical</i>.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Review the contract requirements and focus on the critical performance elements in the statement of work or specifications.  Factors to consider include—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Technology being applied or developed by the contractor;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Technical complexity;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  Program maturity;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv)  Performance specifications and tolerances;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v)  Delivery schedule; and</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vi)  Extent of a warranty or guarantee.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Above normal conditions.</i></p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value in those cases where there is a substantial technical risk.  Indicators are—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Items are being manufactured using specifications with stringent tolerance limits;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The efforts require highly skilled personnel or require the use of state-of-the-art machinery;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  The services and analytical efforts are extremely important to the Government and must be performed to exacting standards;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  The contractor's independent development and investment has reduced the Government's risk or cost;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E)  The contractor has accepted an accelerated delivery schedule to meet DoD requirements; or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(F)  The contractor has assumed additional risk<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "/>through warranty provisions.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Extremely complex, vital efforts to overcome difficult technical obstacles that require personnel with exceptional abilities, experience, and professional credentials may justify a value significantly above normal.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  The following may justify a maximum value—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Development or initial production of a new item, particularly if performance or quality specifications are tight; or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  A high degree of development or production concurrency.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Below normal conditions.</i></p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value in those cases where the technical risk is low.  Indicators are—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Requirements are relatively simple;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Technology is not complex;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  Efforts do not require highly skilled personnel;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  Efforts are routine;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E)  Programs are mature; or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(F)  Acquisition is a follow-on effort or a repetitive type acquisition.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  The contracting officer may assign a value significantly below normal for—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Routine services;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Production of simple items;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  Rote entry or routine integration of Government-furnished information; or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  Simple operations with Government-furnished property.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Technology incentive range.</i></p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contracting officer may assign values within the technology incentive range when contract performance includes the introduction of new, significant technological innovation.  Use the technology incentive range only for the most innovative contract efforts.  Innovation may be in the form of--</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Development or application of new technology that fundamentally changes the characteristics of an existing product or system and that results in increased technical performance, improved reliability, or reduced costs; or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  New products or systems that contain significant technological advances over the products or systems they are replacing.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  When selecting a value within the technology incentive range, the contracting officer should consider the relative value of the proposed innovation to the acquisition as a whole.  When the innovation represents a minor benefit, the contracting officer should consider using values less than the norm.  For innovative efforts that will have a major positive impact on the product or program, the contracting officer may use values above the norm.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Evaluation criteria for management/cost control.</i></p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  The contracting officer should evaluate—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contractor's management and internal control systems using contracting office data, information and reviews made by field contract administration offices or other DoD field offices;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  The management involvement expected on the prospective contract action;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  The degree of cost mix as an indication of the types of resources applied and value added by the contractor; </p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv)  The contractor's support of Federal socioeconomic programs;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v)  The expected reliability of the contractor's cost estimates (including the contractor's cost estimating system);</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vi)  The adequacy of the contractor's management approach to controlling cost and schedule; and</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vii)  Any other factors that affect the contractor's ability to meet the cost targets (e.g., foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates).</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Above normal conditions</i>.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value when there is a high degree of management effort.  Indicators of this are—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  The contractor's value added is both considerable and reasonably difficult;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The effort involves a high degree of integration or coordination;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  The contractor has a good record of past performance;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  The contractor has a substantial record of active participation in Federal socioeconomic programs;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E)  The contractor provides fully documented and reliable cost estimates;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(F)  The contractor makes appropriate make-or-buy decisions; or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(G)  The contractor has a proven record of cost tracking and control.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  The contracting officer may justify a maximum value when the effort—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Requires large scale integration of the most complex nature;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Involves major international activities with significant management coordination (e.g., offsets with foreign vendors); or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  Has critically important milestones.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  If the contractor demonstrates efficient management and cost control through the submittal of a timely, qualifying proposal (as defined in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1386574" href="DFAR-i1386574.dita#i1386574">217.7401</xref>) in furtherance of definitization of an undefinitized contract action, and the proposal demonstrates effective cost control from the time of award to the present, the contracting officer may add 1 percentage point to the value determined for management/cost control up to the maximum of 7 percent.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Below normal conditions</i>.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value when the management effort is minimal.  Indicators of this are—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  The program is mature and many end item deliveries have been made;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The contractor adds minimal value to an item;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  The efforts are routine and require minimal supervision;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  The contractor provides poor quality, untimely proposals;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E)  The contractor fails to provide an adequate analysis of subcontractor costs; </p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(F)  The contractor does not cooperate in the evaluation and negotiation of the proposal;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(G)  The contractor's cost estimating system is marginal;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(H)  The contractor has made minimal effort to initiate cost reduction programs;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(I)  The contractor's cost proposal is inadequate;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(J)  The contractor has a record of cost overruns or another indication of unreliable cost estimates and lack of cost control; or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(K)  The contractor has a poor record of past performance.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  The following may justify a value significantly below normal—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Reviews performed by the field contract administration offices disclose unsatisfactory management and internal control systems (e.g., quality assurance, property control, safety, security); or</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The effort requires an unusually low degree of management involvement.</p><p class="- topic/p "><xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378203" href="DFAR-i1378203.dita#i1378203">215.404-71</xref>-3  Contract type risk and working capital adjustment.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Description</i>.  The contract type risk factor focuses on the degree of cost risk accepted by the contractor under varying contract types.  The working capital adjustment is an adjustment added to the profit objective for contract type risk.  It only applies to fixed-price contracts that provide for progress payments.  Though it uses a formula approach, it is not intended to be an exact calculation of the cost of working capital.  Its purpose is to give general recognition to the contractor's cost of working capital under varying contract circumstances, financing policies, and the economic environment.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Determination</i>.  The following extract from the DD 1547 is annotated to explain the process.</p><p class="- topic/p "/><table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="6" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="11*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="28*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="15*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="14*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="5" colname="5" colwidth="14*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="6" colname="6" colwidth="17*" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Contractor</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Assigned</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Base</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Profit</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Item</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Risk Factors</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Value</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Objective</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">24a</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Contract Type Risk (based on incurred costs at the time of qualifying proposal submission)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(1)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(2)(i)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(3)</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">24b</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Contract Type Risk (based on Government estimated cost to complete)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(1)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(2)(ii)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(3)</p></entry></row><row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">24c</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Totals</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(3)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(3)</p></entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><p class="- topic/p "/><table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="6" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="11*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="29*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="18*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="14*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="5" colname="5" colwidth="12*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="6" colname="6" colwidth="15*" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Contractor</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Costs</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Length</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Interest</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Profit</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Item</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Risk Factors</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Financed</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Factor</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Rate</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Objective</p></entry></row><row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">25</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Working Capital (4)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(5)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(6)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(7)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(8)</p></entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "/><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Select a value from the list of contract types in paragraph (c) of this section using the evaluation criteria in paragraph (d) of this section.  See paragraph (d)(2) of this section.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)(i)  Insert the amount of costs incurred as of the date the contractor submits a qualifying proposal, such as under an undefinitized contract action (excluding facilities capital cost of money) into the Block 24a column titled Base. </p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Insert the amount of Government estimated cost to complete (excluding facilities capital cost of money) into the Block 24b column titled Base.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  Multiply (1) by (2)(i) and (2)(ii), respectively for blocks 24a and 24b.  Add Blocks 24a and 24b and insert the totals in Block 24c.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  Only complete this block when the prospective contract is a fixed-price contract containing provisions for progress payments.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5)  Insert the amount computed per paragraph (e) of this subsection.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6)  Insert the appropriate figure from paragraph (f) of this subsection.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(7)  Use the interest rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury (see http://www.treasurydirect.gov/govt/rates/tcir/tcir_opdirsemi.htm).  Do not use any other interest rate.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(8)  Multiply (5) by (6) by (7).  This is the working capital adjustment.  It shall not exceed 4 percent of the contract costs in Block 20.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Values:  Normal and designated ranges</i>.</p><p class="- topic/p "/><table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="6" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="57*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="11*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="5*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="5*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="5" colname="5" colwidth="5*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="6" colname="6" colwidth="17*" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Normal</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Designated</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Contract Type</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Notes</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Value</p><p class="- topic/p ">(percent)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Range</p><p class="- topic/p ">(percent)</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Firm-fixed-price, no financing</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(1)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">5</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">4 to 6.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Firm-fixed-price, with performance-based payments</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(6)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">4</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">2.5<ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph "/>to 5.5.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Firm-fixed-price, with progress payments</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(2)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">3</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">2 to 4.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Fixed-price incentive, no financing</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(1)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">3</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">2 to 4.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Fixed-price incentive, with performance-based payments</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(6)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">2</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">0.5 to 3.5.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Fixed-price with redetermination provision</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(3)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Fixed-price incentive, with progress payments</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(2)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">1</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">0 to 2.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Cost-plus-incentive-fee</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(4)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">1</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">0 to 2.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Cost-plus-fixed-fee</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(4)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">.5</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">0 to 1.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Time-and-materials (including overhaul contracts priced on time-and-materials basis)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(5)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">.5</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">0 to 1.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Labor-hour </p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(5)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">.5</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">0 to 1.</p></entry></row><row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Firm-fixed-price, level-of-effort</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">(5)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">.5</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">0 to 1.</p></entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "/><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  “No financing” means either that the contract does not provide progress payments or performance-based payments, or that the contract provides them only on a limited basis, such as financing of first articles.  Do not compute a working capital adjustment.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  When the contract contains provisions for progress payments, compute a working capital adjustment (Block 25).</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  For the purposes of assigning profit values, treat a fixed-price contract with redetermination provisions as if it were a fixed-price incentive contract with below normal conditions.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  Cost-plus contracts shall not receive the working capital adjustment.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5)  These types of contracts are considered cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts for the purposes of assigning profit values.  They shall not receive the working capital adjustment in Block 25.  However, they may receive higher than normal values within the designated range to the extent that portions of cost are fixed.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6)  When the contract contains provisions for performance-based payments, do not compute a working capital adjustment.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Evaluation criteria</i>.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">)  General.</i>  The contracting officer should consider elements that affect contract type risk such as—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Length of contract;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Adequacy of cost data for projections;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  Economic environment;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv)  Nature and extent of subcontracted activity;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v)  Protection provided to the contractor under contract provisions (e.g., economic price adjustment clauses);</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vi)  The ceilings and share lines contained in incentive provisions; </p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vii)  Risks associated with contracts for foreign military sales (FMS) that are not funded by U.S. appropriations; and</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(viii)  When the contract contains provisions for performance-based payments—</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  The frequency of payments;</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The total amount of payments compared to the maximum allowable amount specified at <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 32.1004</ph>(b)(2); and</p><p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  The risk of the payment schedule to the contractor.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Mandatory.</i></p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contracting officer shall assess the extent to which costs have been incurred prior to definitization of the contract action (also see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378527" href="DFAR-i1378527.dita#i1378527">217.7404-6</xref>(a) and <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1380464" href="DFAR-i1380464.dita#i1380464">243.204-70</xref>-6).  When costs have been incurred prior to definitization, generally regard the contract type risk to be in the low end of the designated range.  If a substantial portion of the costs have been incurred prior to definitization, the contracting officer may assign a value as low as zero percent, regardless of contract type.  However, if a contractor submits a qualifying proposal to definitize an undefinitized contract action and the contracting officer for such action definitizes the contract after the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date on which the contractor submitted the qualifying proposal (as defined in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1386574" href="DFAR-i1386574.dita#i1386574">217.7401</xref>), the profit allowed on the contract shall accurately reflect the cost risk of the contractor as such risk existed on the date the contractor submitted the qualifying proposal.</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Contracting officers shall document in the price negotiation memorandum the reason for assigning a specific contract type risk value, to include the extent to which any reduced cost risk during the undefinitized period of performance was considered, in determining the negotiation objective.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">  Above normal conditions.</i>  The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value when there is substantial contract type risk.  Indicators of this are—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Efforts where there is minimal cost history;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Long-term contracts without provisions protecting the contractor, particularly when there is considerable economic uncertainty;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  Incentive provisions (e.g., cost and performance incentives) that place a high degree of risk on the contractor; </p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv)  FMS sales (other than those under DoD cooperative logistics support arrangements or those made from U.S. Government inventories or stocks) where the contractor can demonstrate that there are substantial risks above those normally present in DoD contracts for similar items; or</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v)  An aggressive performance-based payment schedule that increases risk.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Below normal conditions</i>.  The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value when the contract type risk is low.  Indicators of this are—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Very mature product line with extensive cost history;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Relatively short-term contracts;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  Contractual provisions that substantially reduce the contractor's risk;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv)  Incentive provisions that place a low degree of risk on the contractor;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v)  Performance-based payments totaling the maximum allowable amount(s) specified at <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 32.1004</ph>(b)(2); or</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(vi)  A performance-based payment schedule that is routine with minimal risk.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Costs financed</i>.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Costs financed equal total costs multiplied by the portion (percent) of costs financed by the contractor.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Total costs equal Block 20 (i.e., all allowable costs excluding facilities capital cost of money), reduced as appropriate when—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contractor has little cash investment (e.g., subcontractor progress payments liquidated late in period of performance);</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Some costs are covered by special financing provisions, such as advance payments; or</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  The contract is multiyear and there are special funding arrangements.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  The portion that the contractor finances is generally the portion not covered by progress payments, i.e., 100 percent minus the customary progress payment rate (see <ph xtrc="FARxref" class="- topic/ph ">FAR 32.501</ph>).  For example, if a contractor receives progress payments at 80 percent, the portion that the contractor finances is 20 percent.  On contracts that provide progress payments to small businesses, use the customary progress payment rate for large businesses.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract length factor</i>.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  This is the period of time that the contractor has a working capital investment in the contract.  It—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Is based on the time necessary for the contractor to complete the substantive portion of the work;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Is not necessarily the period of time between contract award and final delivery (or final payment), as periods of minimal effort should be excluded;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  Should not include periods of performance contained in option provisions; and</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv)  Should not, for multiyear contracts, include periods of performance beyond that required to complete the initial program year's requirements.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  The contracting officer—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Should use the following table to select the contract length factor;</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Should develop a weighted average contract length when the contract has multiple deliveries; and</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  May use sampling techniques provided they produce a representative result.</p><p class="- topic/p "/><table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="13" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="5" colname="5" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="6" colname="6" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="7" colname="7" colwidth="8*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="8" colname="8" colwidth="10*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="9" colname="9" colwidth="10*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="10" colname="10" colwidth="10*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="11" colname="11" colwidth="6*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="12" colname="12" colwidth="6*" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colnum="13" colname="13" colwidth="6*" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">TABLE</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Period to Perform Substantive </p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Contract Length</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Portion (in months)</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">Factor</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">21 or less</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">.40</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">22 to 27</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">.65</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">28 to 33</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">.90</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">34 to 39</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">1.15</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">40 to 45</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">1.40</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">46 to 51</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">1.65</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">52 to 57</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">1.90</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">58 to 63</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">2.15</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">64 to 69</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">2.40</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">70 to 75</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">2.65</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row><row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">76 or more</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p ">2.90</p></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry><entry class="- topic/entry "><p class="- topic/p "/></entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "/><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  Example:  A prospective contract has a performance period of 40 months with end items being delivered in the 34th, 36th, 38th, and 40th months of the contract.  The average period is 37 months and the contract length factor is 1.15.</p></conbody></concept></dita>