<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd"><dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"><concept id="i1384318" outputclass="4" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">252.249-7002</ph> Notification of Anticipated Contract Termination or Reduction.</title><conbody outputclass="clause" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1390430" href="DFAR-i1390430.dita#i1390430">249.7003</xref>(c), use the following clause:</p><p class="- topic/p ">NOTIFICATION OF ANTICIPATED CONTRACT TERMINATION OR REDUCTION</p><p class="- topic/p ">(MAY 2019)</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definitions.</i> As use in this clause—</p><p class="- topic/p ">“Major defense program” means a program that is carried out to produce or acquire a major system (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2302(5)).</p><p class="- topic/p ">“Substantial reduction” means a reduction of 25 percent or more in the total dollar value of funds obligated by the contract.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Section 1372 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Pub. L. 103-160) and Section 824 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Pub. L. 104-201) are intended to help establish benefit eligibility under the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1661 and 1662) for employees of DoD contractors and subcontractors adversely affected by contract terminations or substantial reductions under major defense programs.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notice to employees and state and local officials.</i>   Within 2 weeks after the Contracting Officer notifies the Contractor that contract funding will be terminated or substantially reduced, the Contractor shall provide notice of such anticipated termination or reduction to—</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Each employee representative of the Contractor’s employees whose work is directly related to the defense contract; or</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  If there is no such representative, each such employee;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  The State dislocated worker unit or office described in section 311(b)(2) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1661(b)(2)); and</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  The chief elected official of the unit of general local government within which the adverse effect may occur.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notice to subcontractors.</i>  Not later than 60 days after the Contractor receives the Contracting Officer’s notice of the anticipated termination or reduction, the Contractor shall—</p><p class="- topic/p ">(1)  Provide notice of the anticipated termination or reduction to each first-tiersubcontractor with a subcontract that equals or exceeds the threshold specified in Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378989" href="DFAR-i1378989.dita#i1378989">225.870-4</xref>(c)(2)(i)(A)(1) at the time of the notice; and</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Require that each such subcontractor—</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Provide notice to each of its subcontractors with a subcontract that equals or exceeds the threshold specified in DFARS <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378989" href="DFAR-i1378989.dita#i1378989">225.870-4</xref>(c)(2)(i)(C) at the time of the notice; and</p><p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Impose a similar notice and flowdown requirement to subcontractorswith subcontracts that equal or exceed the threshold specified in DFARS <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="i1378989" href="DFAR-i1378989.dita#i1378989">225.870-4</xref>(c)(2)(i)(C) at the time of the notice.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e)  The notice provided an employee under paragraph (c) of this clause shall have the same effect as a notice of termination to the employee for the purposes of determining whether such employee is eligible for training, adjustment assistance, and employment services under section 325 or 325A of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1662d, 1662d-1).  If the Contractor has specified that the anticipated contract termination or reduction is not likely to result in plant closure or mass layoff, as defined in 29 U.S.C. 2101, the employee shall be eligible only for services under section 314(b) and paragraphs (1) through (14), (16), and (18) of section 314(c) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1661c(b) and paragraphs (1) through (14), (16), and (18) of section 1661c(c)).</p><p outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p></conbody></concept></dita>