<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <topic id="d1e11100">
         <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> Section 2. Acquisition Planning</title>
         <body>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.1. Acquisition Approach. Discuss the
acquisition approach including appropriate milestones,</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal">including actual or anticipated SRRB approval.
If the requirements include services specified in Annex 22 but not
covered by an exception listed at 5237.102, discuss how SeaPort
was considered.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.2 Budget. Identify the estimated cost
for each option/phase for acquisitions that contemplate the use
of options or a multiple phased approach. Explain how budget estimates
were derived and discuss the schedule for obtaining adequate funds
at the time they are required.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.3 Funding. Identify funding to support
the action by fiscal year and appropriation.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.4 Category Management/Strategic Sourcing.
Describe how category management, including strategic sourcing,
will be considered for incorporation into this acquisition. Address
whether the requirement can be achieved through an existing Federal, DOD,
or DON contract vehicle. If establishing a new contract vehicle
when a similar solution exists, include supporting information to
justify why it is necessary to meet the requirement. In addition,
address category management Tier solutions and Analysis of Alternative
(AoA) requirements, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) memorandum M-19-13, for all common requirements.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.5 Performance-based Acquisition. Discuss
the use of performance-based acquisition methods or rationale for
not using performance-based methods.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.6 Socioeconomic Considerations. Discuss
the consideration of small businesses. Clearly identify how small
business will be utilized to meet program or contract requirements,
as either a prime contractor or through the use of subcontract provisions.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.7 Source-selection procedures. Explain
the type of source selection procedure being contemplated (i.e.,
Lowest Price Technically Acceptable (LPTA), Price/Technical Tradeoff
or Value Adjusted Total Evaluated Price (VATEP)) in the evaluation
of proposals and source selection. Discuss why the choice is appropriate
and in the best interest of the Government.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.8 Deviations. Discuss any applicable
FAR or DFARS deviations that will be required.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.9 Competition. Describe how competition
will be sought, promoted, and sustained throughout the course of
the acquisition. If full and open competition is not contemplated,
cite the appropriate FAR authority. Discuss the basis for the application
of that authority, identify the source(s), and discuss why full
and open competition cannot be obtained.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.10 Special Contracting Methods. Discuss
the use and authority of multi-year contracting or other special
contracting methods.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.11 Requirements Validation.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.11.1 Discuss the Government process
to ensure contractors are not performing inherently governmental
functions or functions closely associated with inherently governmental
functions. If the contract does contain functions closely associated
with inherently governmental functions, discuss the safeguards planned
to ensure effective management of contractor personnel in these
positions.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.11.2 Discuss the Government process
to ensure contractors are not performing personal services. If the
contract does contain requirements requiring personal services,
discuss the safeguards planned to ensure effective management of
contractor personnel in these positions.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.11.3 Discuss the Government process
to address an organizational conflict of interest (if applicable).</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">2.12 Service Acquisition Workshop (SAW).
For Services acquisitions above the threshold defined in 5237.192(a),
discuss the use of the SAW (include the anticipated participants
in the multi-</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal">functional team) to maximize SAW benefits.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         </body>
      </topic>
</dita>
