<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_231_71_T48_50325402154">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.231-71</ph> Insurance-litigation and claims.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 931.205-19(f), insert the following clause in applicable non-management and operating contracts:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Insurance - Litigation and Claims (JUL 2013)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor must comply with 10 CFR part 719, contractor Legal Management Requirements, if applicable.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause, the contractor shall procure and maintain such bonds and insurance as required by law or approved in writing by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contractor may, with the approval of the Contracting Officer, maintain a self-insurance program in accordance with FAR 28.308; provided that, with respect to workers' compensation, the contractor is qualified pursuant to statutory authority.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) All bonds and insurance required by this clause shall be in a form and amount and for those periods as the Contracting Officer may require or approve and with sureties and insurers approved by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor agrees to submit for the Contracting Officer's approval, to the extent and in the manner required by the Contracting Officer, any other bonds and insurance that are maintained by the contractor in connection with the performance of this contract and for which the contractor seeks reimbursement. If an insurance cost (whether a premium for commercial insurance or related to self-insurance) includes a portion covering costs made unallowable elsewhere in the contract, and the share of the cost for coverage for the unallowable cost is determinable, the portion of the cost that is otherwise an allowable cost under this contract is reimbursable to the extent determined by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this clause, or specifically disallowed elsewhere in this contract, the contractor shall be reimbursed - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) For that portion of the reasonable cost of bonds and insurance allocable to this contract required in accordance with contract terms or approved under this clause, and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) For liabilities (and reasonable expenses incidental to such liabilities, including litigation costs) to third persons not compensated by insurance without regard to the limitation of cost or limitation of funds clause of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Government's liability under paragraph (d) of this clause is subject to the availability of appropriated funds. Nothing in this contract shall be construed as implying that the Congress will, at a later date, appropriate funds sufficient to meet deficiencies.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Notwithstanding any other provision of this contract, the contractor shall not be reimbursed for liabilities to third parties, including contractor employees, and directly associated costs which may include but are not limited to litigation costs, counsel fees, judgment and settlements - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Which are otherwise unallowable by law or the provisions of this contract, including the cost reimbursement limitations contained in 48 CFR part 970.31, as supplemented by 48 CFR part 931;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) For which the contractor has failed to insure or to maintain insurance as required by law, this contract, or by the written direction of the Contracting Officer; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Which were caused by contractor managerial personnel's - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(A) Willful misconduct;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(B) Lack of good faith; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(C) Failure to exercise prudent business judgment, which means failure to act in the same manner as a prudent person in the conduct of competitive business; or, in the case of a non-profit educational institution, failure to act in the manner that a prudent person would under the circumstances prevailing at the time the decision to incur the cost is made.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The term “contractor's managerial personnel” is defined in the Property clause in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(g)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			All litigation costs, including counsel fees, judgments and settlements shall be segregated and accounted for by the contractor separately. If the Contracting Officer provisionally disallows such costs, then the contractor may not use funds advanced by DOE under the contract to finance the litigation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Punitive damages are not allowable unless the act or failure to act which gave rise to the liability resulted from compliance with specific terms and conditions of the contract or written instructions from the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The portion of the cost of insurance obtained by the contractor that is allocable to coverage of liabilities referred to in paragraph (f) of this clause is not allowable.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) The contractor may at its own expense and not as an allowable cost procure for its own protection insurance to compensate the contractor for any unallowable or non-reimbursable costs incurred in connection with contract performance.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
