<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_945_570_1_T48_5032435312">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">945.570-1</ph> Acquisition of motor vehicles.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) GSA Interagency Fleet Management System (GSA-IFMS) is the first source of supply for providing motor vehicles to contractors; however, contracting officer approval is required for contractors to utilize this service.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Prior approval of GSA must be obtained before - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Fixed-price contractors can use the GSA-IFMS;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) DOE-owned motor vehicles can be furnished to any contractor in an area served by GSA-IFMS; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A contractor can commercially lease a motor vehicle for more than 60 days after GSA has determined that it cannot provide the required vehicle.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) GSA has the responsibility for acquisition of motor vehicles for Government agencies. All requisitions shall be processed via GSA AutoChoice in accordance with 41 CFR 101-26.501.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Contractors shall submit all motor vehicle requirements to the contracting officer for approval.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The acquisition of sedans and station wagons is limited to small, subcompact, and compact vehicles which meet Government fuel economy standards. The acquisition of light trucks is limited to those vehicles which meet the current fuel economy standards set by Executive Orders 12003 and 12375.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) Cost reimbursement contractors may be authorized by the contracting officer to utilize GSA Federal Supply Schedule 751, Leasing of Automobiles and Light Trucks, for short term rentals not to exceed 60 days, and are required to utilize available GSA consolidated leasing programs for long term (60 continuous days or longer) commercial leasing of passenger vehicles and light trucks.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) The Personal Property Policy Division, within the Headquarters procurement organization shall certify all requisitions prior to submittal to GSA for the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The acquisition of sedans and station wagons.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The lease (60 continuous days or longer) of any passenger automobile.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The acquisition or lease (60 continuous days or longer) of light trucks less than 8,500 GVWR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) Purchase requisitions for other motor vehicles may be submitted directly to GSA when approved by the contracting officer.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) Contractors shall thoroughly examine motor vehicles acquired under a GSA contract for defects. Any defect shall be reported promptly to GSA, and repairs shall be made under terms of the warranty.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
