<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2152_210_70_T48_6074625115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2152.210-70</ph> Investment income.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2110_7004_T48_607409115"
                  href="Section_2110_7004_T48_607409115.dita#Section_2110_7004_T48_607409115">2110.7004</xref>(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Investment Income (OCT 2005)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor must invest and reinvest all FEGLI Program funds on hand until needed to discharge promptly the obligations incurred under the contract. Within the constraints of safety and liquidity of investments, the Contractor must seek to maximize investment income. However, the Contractor will not be responsible for any actions taken at the direction of OPM.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) All investment income earned on FEGLI Program funds shall be credited to the FEGLI Program.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) When the Contracting Officer concludes that the Contractor failed to comply with paragraph (a) or (b) of this clause, the Contractor must pay to OPM the investment income that would have been earned, at the rate(s) specified in paragraph (d) of this clause, had it not been for the Contractor's noncompliance. <i>Failed to comply with paragraph (a) or (b) of this clause</i> means:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Making any charges against the contract which are not actual, allowable, allocable, or reasonable; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Failing to credit any income due the contract and/or failing to place funds on hand, including premium payments and payments from OPM not needed to discharge promptly the obligations incurred under the contract, tax refunds, credits, deposits, investment income earned, uncashed checks, or other amounts owed OPM in income-producing investments and accounts.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Investment income lost as a result of unallowable, unallocable, or unreasonable charges against the contract shall be paid from the 1st day of the contract term following the contract term in which the unallowable charge was made and shall end on the earlier of: (i) The date the amounts are returned to OPM; (ii) the date specified by the Contracting Officer; or, (iii) the date of the Contracting Officer's Final Decision.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Investment income lost by the Contractor as a result of failure to credit income due under the contract or failure to place funds on hand in income-producing investments and accounts must be paid from the date the funds should have been invested or appropriate income was not credited and will end on the earlier of:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The date the amounts are returned to OPM;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The date specified by the Contracting Officer; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The date of the Contracting Officer's final decision.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Contractor shall credit to the FEGLI Program income that is due in accordance with this clause. All amounts payable shall bear lost investment income compounded semiannually at the rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in section 12 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-563), <i>during</i> the periods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) All amounts due and unpaid <i>after</i> the periods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) shall bear simple interest at the rate applicable for each 6-month period as fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury until the amount is paid [see FAR 32.614-1].</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
