<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2115_404_71_T48_6074111413">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2115.404-71</ph> Profit analysis factors.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The OPM Contracting Officer will apply a weighted guidelines method when developing the prenegotiation objective (service charge) for the FEGLI Program contract. In accordance with the factors defined in FAR 15.404-4(d), OPM will apply the appropriate weights derived from the ranges specified in paragraph (b) of this section and will determine the prenegotiation objective based on the total dollar amount of the Contractor's Basic and Option C (family optional insurance) claims paid in the previous contract year.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Contractor performance.</i> OPM will consider such elements as the accurate and timely processing of benefit claims, the volume and validity of complaints received by OPM, effectiveness of internal controls systems in place, the timeliness and adequacy of reports on operations, and responsiveness to OPM offices, enrollees, beneficiaries, and Congress as measures of economical and efficient contract performance. This factor will be judged apart from the Contractor's <i>basic</i> responsibility for contract compliance and will be a measure of the extent and nature of the Contractor's contribution to the FEGLI Program through the application of managerial expertise and effort. Evidence of effective contract performance will receive a plus weight, and poor performance or failure to comply with contract terms and conditions a zero weight. Innovations of benefit to the FEGLI Program will generally receive a plus weight; documented inattention or indifference to effective operations, a zero weight.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Contract cost risk.</i> OPM will evaluate the Contractor's risk annually in relation to the amount in the Employees' Life Insurance Fund and will evaluate this factor accordingly.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Federal socioeconomic programs.</i> OPM will consider documented evidence of successful Contractor-initiated efforts to support such Federal socioeconomic programs as drug and substance abuse deterrents and other concerns of the type enumerated in FAR 15.404-4(d)(1)(iii) as a factor in negotiating profit. This factor will be related to the quality of the Contractor's policies and procedures and the extent of exceptional effort or achievement demonstrated. Evidence of effective support of Federal socioeconomic programs will result in a plus weight; indifference to Federal socioeconomic programs will result in a zero weight; and only deliberate failure to provide opportunities to persons and organizations that would benefit from these programs will result in a negative weight.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Capital investments.</i> This factor is generally not applicable to FEGLI Program contracts because facilities capital cost of money may be an allowable administrative expense. Generally, this factor will be given a weight of zero. However, special purpose facilities or investment costs of direct benefit to the FEGLI Program that are not recoverable as allowable or allocable administrative expenses may be taken into account in assigning a plus weight.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Cost control.</i> This factor is based on the Contractor's previously demonstrated ability to perform effectively and economically. In addition, consideration will be given to measures taken by the Contractor that result in productivity improvements and other cost containment accomplishments that will be of future benefit to the FEGLI Program. Examples are containment of costs associated with processing claims; success at preventing waste, loss, unauthorized use, or misappropriation of FEGLI Program assets; and success at limiting and recovering erroneous benefit payments.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Independent development.</i> Consideration will be given to independent Contractor-initiated efforts, such as the development of a unique and enhanced customer support system, that are of demonstrated value to the FEGLI Program and for which developmental costs have not been recovered directly or indirectly through allowable or allocable administrative expenses. This factor will be used to provide additional profit opportunities based upon an assessment of the Contractor's investment and risk in developing techniques, methods, practices, etc., having viability to the Program at large. Improvements and innovations recognized and rewarded under any other profit factor cannot be considered.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) <i>Transitional services.</i> This factor is based on the Contractor's performance of transitional activities during a continuity of services period as described in the clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2152_237_70_T48_60746251115"
                  href="Section_2152_237_70_T48_60746251115.dita#Section_2152_237_70_T48_60746251115">2152.237-70</xref> of this chapter. These are any activities apart from the normal servicing of the contract during an active contract term. Other than for a transitional period, the weight applied to this factor for any active contract term is zero.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The weight ranges for each factor to be used in the weighted guidelines approach are set forth in the following table: 
</p>
         <p xtrc="DIV">
                                    
                                       <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="2" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1">Profit factor 
</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2">Weight ranges 
</entry>
                                          </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">1. Contractor performance</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">0 to +.0005.
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">2. Contract cost risk</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">+.000001 to +.00001.
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">3. Federal socioeconomic programs</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">−.00003 to +.00003.
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">4. Capital investment</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">0 to +.00001.
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">5. Cost control</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">−.0002 to +.0002.
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">6. Independent development</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">0 to +.00003.
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">7. Transitional services</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">0 to +.0007.</entry>
                                          </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                    
                                 </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
