<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1010766" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5201.691-2 Responsibilities.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) DASN(P) is responsible for
managing and overseeing the performance of the DON contracting/procurement
system by reviewing HCAs and other designated DON contracting organizations
using the PPMAP as one of its primary m<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL file:///C:/Users/denise.randolph/Documents/NMCARS/2013%20Version/13-15/NavyLaborAdvisor@navy.mil?>ethods to execute this responsibility.
DASN(P) is also responsible for providing PPMAP guidance, as appropriate.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) Each HCA is responsible for performing
management and oversight reviews of all procurement operations performed within
the HCA, i.e. within Headquarters and at any subordinate contracting
organization or field activity with delegated procurement authority,
for procurement operations associated with any delegated authority,
and at any other activities as directed by DASN(P) or higher-level
authority. HCAs shall:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) establish written procedures implementing
the DON PPMAP review process for the contracting activity;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) perform and document periodic self-assessments
(and other internal reviews) to evaluate and improve the quality
of t<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL file:///C:/Users/denise.randolph/Documents/NMCARS/2013%20Version/13-15/NavyLaborAdvisor@navy.mil?>he procurement organization’s operations and processes within
the contracting activity; and,</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) conduct and document timely reviews
of all subordinate organizations and field activities with delegated
contracting/procurement authority to ensure execution of author<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL https://psctool.us?>ity
is performed according to law and regulation.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) HCAs will, upon request, provide contracting
personnel, at a grade of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, to serve
on DASN(P) PPMAP teams.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(d) Reporting requirements. HCAs shall
provide DASN(P) the following information:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) By October 1st of each year, submit
a PPMAP assessment plan for the new fiscal year identifying the
self-assessments and activity reviews scheduled for the contracting
activity, including the specific resources (by activity) that will
be assigned to conduct that oversight.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) By January 30th of each year, submit
a report summarizing for the contracting activity the outcome of
the previous fiscal year’s periodic self-assessments/internal compliance
reviews performed on the contracting/procurement function at Headquarters
and of on-site reviews/assessments conducted on subordinate contracting
organizations and field activities with delegated procurement authority.
The annual report should clearly convey the actions the HCA has
taken to improve the quality of contracting/procurement operations
within the contracting activity. At a minimum, the HCA’s report
must:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(i) include a summary of the findings noted
for the contracting activity;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii) describe any statutory and/or regulatory
deficiencies identified;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iii) explain associated corrective actions
taken either at the contracting activity-level or specific subordinate
field activity-level;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iv) identify best practices which could
be useful to other DON contracting activities;</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(v) include other relevant information,
i.e. the results of the HCA’s annual warrant file audits, acquisition
staffing and workload analysis, external audits or reviews to include
the status of relevant recommendations; and, if applic<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL http://www.secnav.navy.mil/rda/OneSource/Pages/Contract%20Labor%20Standards%20and%20Relations/Contract-Labor-Standards-Relations.aspx?>able,</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(vi) address the actions taken in response
to a DASN(P) PPMAP performed during the reporting period.<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL http://www.contractdirectory.gov/contractdirectory/?></p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(3) Submit the required information in
paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) above<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL http://www.abilityone.gov/procurement_list/index.html?> to DASN(P) by e-mail at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink">R<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?>DAJ&amp;As.fct@navy.mil</ph> with
the subject “[Activity Name] NMCARS 5201.691-2 – PPMAP Reporting.”
Reports must be signed by the HCA’s senior contracting official.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(e) DASN(P) shall be advised in writing,
within five calendar days, any time an HCA revokes, suspends or
reduces contracting or purchase card authority delegated to a cognizant
field contracting activity o<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL https://www.secnav.navy.mil/rda/OneSource/Pages/PACT/PACT.aspx?>r subordinate organization. Submit notifications
to DASN(P) by e-mail at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink">R<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?>DAJ&amp;As.fct@navy.mil</ph> with
the subject “[Activity Name] NMCARS 5201.691-2 –Revocation of [Contracting
or Purchase Card] Authority.”</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
