<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1031842" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5215.305 Proposal evaluation.</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a)(1) Cost or price evaluation.
Methods of evaluation which assign a point score to cost or price
and combine it with point scores for other evaluation factors generally
should not be used. Point scores can be helpful in summarizing subjective evaluation
of technical and other factors but are not needed in evaluating
cost or price and tend to obscure the tradeoff between cost/pr<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:SeniorServicesManage.fct@navy.mil?>ice
and other factors, rather than clarifying it. If point scoring of
cost/price is utilized, it should be demonstrated that the value
of a cost/price point is comparable, in value to the Government,
to the value of a non-cost/price point. When a cost realism analysis
is performed, the resulting realistic cost estimate should be used
in the evaluation of cost, except when using a firm-fixed-price
or fixed-price with economic price adjustment type of contract.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(4) Cost information. The sharing of cost
information with the technical evaluation team, and any limitations
on the timing and extent of such sharing, should be addressed during
the planning for the source selection. HCAs may establish specific
procedural requirements for approving, documenting and/or varying
from plans related to such sharing.</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">(S-90) Approval for use of contractor
personnel as evaluators is addressed in FAR Subpart 37.2 and 5237.204.
Such contractor personnel shall not rank or recommend one proposal
over another, assign any ratings or numerical scores, or otherwise
act in a decision-making capacity. Whenever advisory contractor
personnel are to be used, a written release shall be obtained from
each offeror.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept>
</dita>
