<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1031566" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5209.4063 Procedures.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(i) Refer all matters to AGC(AI).</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii)(D) Entity Identifier reports should
also be included for all known affiliates, subsidiaries, or parent
firms.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii)(E)(2) Whether to apply limitations
to the suspension or debarment and provide a recommendation for
debarment or suspension action in the case of any subsidiaries and
the officers thereof.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iii)(A) In cases involving indictments,
forward reports within 15 calendar days after the indictment is
filed.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iv)(S-90) Contracting officers shall report
when the contractor receives a rating of “Unsatisfactory” in any
evaluation area of Past Performance under a DON contract to the
DON AIO. When the contracting officer issues a show cause or cure
notice, the cognizant contracting officer shall submit a copy of
the issuance to the DON Acquisition Integrity Office AIO within
five days by email at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink">aio@navy.mil</ph> with
the subject “PGI 209.406-3 - Poor Performance Referral."</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iv)(E) The summary shall also include
comments regarding the U.S. Attorney’s positions on release of any
investigative reports included in the report.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">(S-90)(i) If Government employees are
implicated in the underlying conduct that led to the referral, the
names and current addresses of the employees, disciplinary action
taken and the current employment status of each individual.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii) If no disciplinary action was taken
against Government employees involved in the wrongdoing, and the
contractor or contractor personnel are recommended for debarment
or suspension, a statement explaining why no disciplinary action
was taken against the Government employee(s), and why debarment
or suspension is appropriate under the circumstances.</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
