<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1014915" outputclass="3">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5205.303 Announcement of contract
awards.</title>
            <conbody>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a) Public Announcement.</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(i) Report orders or modifications issued
by CAOs that exceed the threshold.</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Submit announcement information to
the Navy Chief of Information (CHINFO).</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">(S-90) Security review. Routine contract
announcements are exempt from the security review process. However,
full security review is required for contract announcements that
are accompanied by amplifying press releases.</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">(S-91) Format. To provide for a better
understanding b<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As.fct@navy.mil?>y the public, contracting activities should explain
in public announcements the specific type of contracting action
being awarded (i.e., state that the DON has “awarded a contract”,
“exercised an option" or “negotiated a modification" to a contract).
Sa<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As.fct@navy.mil?>mple formats of announcements for contract modifications are illustrated below.
Formats may be altered to suit the circumstances of the contracting
action.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contract award. (Name of contractor,
city, state) ______________________ was awarded Contract No. issued
by the (activity) <?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?> . The contract was awarded in the amount of $
.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(b) Contract modification. (Name of contractor,
city, state) _________________ is receiving modification number _____________________
to previously awarded Contract No. issued by the (activi<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?>ty) . This
modification increases the value of the basic contract by $ , the
new total value is $ . Insert an explanatory statement similar to
one of the following as appropriate:</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) This modification adds the (# of increment,
i.e., second, third, etc.) increment of the (length of multiyear
contract, i.e., three, four, etc.) year multiyear basic contract.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2"><?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As.fct@navy.mil%20with?> (2) This modification provides for the
purchase of an additional quantity of (quantity and item, e.g.,
500 widgets) being produced under the basic contract. (If appropriate,
indicate that the contracting action is the result of a competitive
negotiated procurement).</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(3) This modification provides for the
exercise of an option for an additional quantity of (quantity and
item, e.g., 200 gadgets) being produced under the basic contract.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(4) This modification changes the specifications
for the (indicate item(s)) being produced under the basic contract.
The contractor indicates that the work (is being) (will be) performed
at (city and state).</p>
               <p outputclass="List4">(D)(5) Miscellaneous data. Include:</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a) a statement that the information contained
in the announcement is unclassified;</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(b) any areas of sensitivity or high-level
interest;</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(c) indication of appropriate coordination
to ensure the accuracy of the wording and data to be released.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(d) the estimated period of performance
or delivery schedule.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(e) the amount of any of the obligated
funds that would have expired at the end of the current fiscal year.</p>
            </conbody>
         </concept>
</dita>
