<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1552_215_74_T48_6018371128">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1552.215-74</ph> Advanced understanding - uncompensated time.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1515_408_T48_601313218"
                  href="Section_1515_408_T48_601313218.dita#Section_1515_408_T48_601313218">1515.408</xref>(b), insert the following provision or one substantially the same as the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Advanced Understanding - Uncompensated Time (AUG 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The estimated cost of this contract is based upon the Contractor's proposal which specified that exempt personnel identified to work at the Contractor's facilities will provide uncompensated labor hours to the contract totaling __ percent of compensated labor. (Note: the commitment for uncompensated time, and the formula elements in paragraph (b) below, apply only to exempt personnel working at the Contractor's facilities and does not include non-exempt personnel or exempt personnel working at other facilities.) Uncompensated labor hours are defined as hours of exempt personnel in excess of regular hours for a __ pay period which are actually worked and recorded in accordance with the company policy, entitled, __________.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Recognizing that the probable cost to the Government for the labor provided under this contract is calculated assuming a proposed level of uncompensated labor hours, it is hereby agreed that in the event the proposed level of uncompensated labor hours are not provided, an adjustment, calculated in accordance with the following formula will be made to the contract amount.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Formula:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Adjustment equals estimated value of uncompensated time hours not provided.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Target uncompensated time percent minus __ percent.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Shortage of uncompensated time percent minus actual cost percent.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Estimated value of uncompensated time hours not provided equals shortage of uncompensated time percent times total exempt applicable direct labor costs (including applicable indirect costs).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Within three weeks after the end of the contract, the Contractor shall submit a statement concerning the amount of uncompensated time hours delivered during the contract. In the event there is a shortage of uncompensated time hours provided, a calculation, utilizing the above formula will be made and this calculation will be the basis for an adjustment in the contract amount.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) In the event adjustments are made to the contract, the adjusted amounts shall not be allowable as a direct or indirect cost to this or any other Government contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
