<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_234_2_T48_60423441193">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.234-2</ph> Earned Value Management System.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1834_203_70_T48_6042128113"
                  href="Section_1834_203_70_T48_6042128113.dita#Section_1834_203_70_T48_6042128113">1834.203-70</xref>(b) insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Earned Value Management System (NOV 2006)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In the performance of this contract, the Contractor shall use - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) An Earned Value Management System (EVMS) that has been determined by the Cognizant Federal Agency to be compliant with the EVMS guidelines specified in the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)/Electronic Industries Alliance (EIA) - 748 Standard, Industry Guidelines for Earned Value Management Systems (current version at the time of award) to manage this contract; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Earned Value Management (EVM) procedures that provide for generation of timely, accurate, reliable, and traceable information for the Contract Performance Report (CPR) and the Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) required by the data requirements descriptions in the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If, at the time of award, the Contractor's EVMS has not been determined by the Cognizant Federal Agency to be compliant with the EVMS guidelines, or the Contractor does not have an existing EVMS that is compliant with the guidelines in the ANSI/EIA-748 Standard (current version at the time of award), the Contractor shall apply the system to the contract and shall take timely action to implement its plan to obtain compliance/validation. The Contractor shall follow and implement the approved compliance/validation plan in a timely fashion. The Government will conduct a Compliance Review to assess the contactor's compliance with its plan, and if the Contractor does not follow the approved implementation schedule or correct all resulting system deficiencies identified as a result of the compliance review within a reasonable time, the Contracting Officer may take remedial action, that may include, but is not limited to, a reduction in fee.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Government will conduct Integrated Baseline Reviews (IBRs). Such reviews shall be scheduled and conducted as early as practicable, and if a pre-award IBR has not been conducted, a post-award IBR should be conducted within 180 calendar days after contract award, or the exercise of significant contract options, or within 60 calendar days after distribution of a supplemental agreement that implements a significant funding realignment or effects a significant change in contractual requirements (e.g., incorporation of major modifications). The objective of IBRs is for the Government and the Contractor to jointly assess the Contractor's baseline to be used for performance measurement to ensure complete coverage of the statement of work, logical scheduling of the work activities, adequate resourcing, and identification of inherent risks. See the NASA IBR Handbook (<i>http://evm.nasa.gov/handbooks.html</i>) for guidance.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Unless a waiver is granted by the Cognizant Federal Agency, Contractor proposed EVMS changes require approval of the Cognizant Federal Agency prior to implementation. The Cognizant Federal Agency shall advise the Contractor of the acceptability of such changes within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice of proposed changes from the Contractor. If the advance approval requirements are waived by the Cognizant Federal Agency, the Contractor shall disclose EVMS changes to the Cognizant Federal Agency at least 14 calendar days prior to the effective date of implementation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor agrees to provide access to all pertinent records and data requested by the Contracting Officer or a duly authorized representative. Access is to permit Government surveillance to ensure that the Contractor's EVMS complies, and continues to comply, with the EVMS guidelines referenced in paragraph (a) of this clause, and to demonstrate - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Proper implementation of the procedures generating the cost and schedule information being used to satisfy the contract data requirements;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Continuing application of the accepted company procedures in satisfying the CPR required by the contract through recurring program/project and contract surveillance; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Implementation of any corrective actions identified during the surveillance process.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring that its subcontractors, identified below, comply with the EVMS requirements of this clause as follows:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) For subcontracts with an estimated dollar value of $50M or more, the following subcontractors shall comply with the requirements of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(Contracting Officer to insert names of subcontractors or subcontracted effort).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(2) For subcontracts with an estimated dollar value of less than $50M, the following subcontractors shall comply with the requirements of this clause except for the requirement in paragraph (b), if applicable, to obtain compliance/validation.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(Contracting Officer to insert names of subcontractors or subcontracted effort.)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) If the contractor identifies a need to deviate from the agreed baseline by working against an Over Target Baseline (OTB) or Over Target Schedule (OTS), the contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a request for approval to begin implementation of an OTB or OTS. This request shall include a top-level projection of cost and/or schedule growth, whether or not performance variances will be retained, and a schedule of implementation for the reprogramming adjustment. The Government will approve or deny the request within 30 calendar days after receipt of the request. Failure of the Government to respond within this 30-day period constitutes approval of the request. Approval of the deviation request does not constitute a change, or the basis for a change, to the negotiated cost or price of this contract, or the estimated cost of any undefinitized contract actions.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (NOV 2006). As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1834_203_70_T48_6042128113"
                  href="Section_1834_203_70_T48_6042128113.dita#Section_1834_203_70_T48_6042128113">1834.203-70</xref>(b), substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If, at the time of award, the Contractor's EVMS has not been determined by the Cognizant Federal Agency to be compliant with the EVMS guidelines, or the Contractor does not have an existing cost/schedule control system that is compliant with the guidelines in the ANSI/EIA-748 Standard (current version at the time of ward), the Contractor shall apply the system to the contract and shall take timely action to implement its plan to be compliant with the guidelines. The Government will not formally validate/accept the Contractor's EVMS with respect to this contract. The use of the Contractor's EVMS for this contract does not imply Government acceptance of the Contractor's EVMS for application to future contracts. The Government will monitor compliance through routine surveillance.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
