<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_228_75_T48_60423441177">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.228-75</ph> Minimum insurance coverage.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1828_372_T48_6042023117"
                  href="Section_1828_372_T48_6042023117.dita#Section_1828_372_T48_6042023117">1828.372</xref>, insert the following clause: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Minimum Insurance Coverage (OCT 1988)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The Contractor shall obtain and maintain insurance coverage as follows for the performance of this contract: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Worker's compensation and employer's liability insurance as required by applicable Federal and state workers' compensation and occupational disease statutes. If occupational diseases are not compensable under those statutes, they shall be covered under the employer's liability section of the insurance policy, except when contract operations are so commingled with the Contractor's commercial operations that it would not be practical. The employer's liability coverage shall be at least $100,000, except in States with exclusive or monopolistic funds that do not permit workers' compensation to be written by private carriers. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Comprehensive general (bodily injury) liability insurance of at least $500,000 per occurrence. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Motor vehicle liability insurance written on the comprehensive form of policy which provides for bodily injury and property damage liability covering the operation of all motor vehicles used in connection with performing the contract. Policies covering motor vehicles operated in the United States shall provide coverage of at least $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury liability and $20,000 per occurrence for property damage. The amount of liability coverage on other policies shall be commensurate with any legal requirements of the locality and sufficient to meet normal and customary claims. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Comprehensive general and motor vehicle liability policies shall contain a provision worded as follows: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“The insurance company waives any right of subrogation against the United States of America which may arise by reason of any payment under the policy.” 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) When aircraft are used in connection with performing the contract, aircraft public and passenger liability insurance of at least $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury, other than passenger liability, and $200,000 per occurrence for property damage. Coverage for passenger liability bodily injury shall be at least $200,000 multiplied by the number of seats or passengers, whichever is greater.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
