<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_601_303_T48_404292313">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">601.303</ph> Publication and codification.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The DOSAR is issued as Chapter 6 of Title 48, Code of Federal Regulations. The DOSAR is established as Chapter 6 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations System. The DOSAR is divided into the same parts, subparts, sections, subsections, and paragraphs as is the FAR. However, when the FAR coverage is adequate by itself there will be no corresponding DOSAR coverage. Where the DOSAR implements a specific part, subpart, section, or subsection of the FAR, the DOSAR coverage is numbered and titled to correspond to the appropriate FAR number and title, except that the DOSAR number will include a 6 or 60 such that there will always be three numbers to the left of the decimal. For example, the DOSAR implementation of FAR 14.1 is shown as 614.1 and the DOSAR implementation of FAR 1.301 is shown as 601.301. Materials that supplement the FAR are assigned the numbers 70 and up. For example, DOSAR requires additional definitions than those used in FAR; this supplementary material is provided in 602.101-70.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The DOSAR and its revisions are published in the Federal Register and in the Code of Federal Regulations, both of which may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The DOSAR shall be referenced in the same manner as described at FAR 1.105-2(c).
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
