<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_652_219_71_T48_4043643217">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">652.219-71</ph> Section 8(a) Direct Awards.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 619.811-3(f), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Section 8(a) Direct Awards (AUG 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This purchase order or contract is issued as a direct award between the contracting activity and the 8(a) contractor pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Department of State (DOS). SBA retains responsibility for 8(a) certification, 8(a) eligibility determinations and related issues, and provides counseling and assistance to the 8(a) contractor under the 8(a) program. The cognizant SBA district office is: [To be completed by the contracting officer at the time of award]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The DOS contracting officer is responsible for administering the purchase order or contract and taking any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the purchase order or contract. However, the DOS contracting officer shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating performance, either in whole or in part, under the purchase order or contract. The DOS contracting officer shall also coordinate with SBA prior to processing any novation agreement. The DOS contracting officer may assign contract administration functions to a contract administration office.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor agrees:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) to notify the DOS contracting officer, simultaneous with its notification to SBA (as required by SBA's 8(a) regulations), when the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility is based, plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern. Consistent with 15 U.S.C. 637(a)(21), transfer of ownership or control shall result in termination of the contract for convenience, unless SBA waives the requirement for termination prior to the actual relinquishing of ownership and control; and, 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) to adhere to the requirements of FAR 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
