<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_605_202_70_T48_404306112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">605.202-70</ph> Foreign acquisitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Policy.</i> In accordance with a Determination and Findings issued by the Assistant Secretary of State for Administration, the requirement for advance notices in the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE) for the Department's foreign acquisitions awarded by overseas contracting activities is waived. GPE notices may be published for any acquisition where the contracting officer decides that publication would be in the Department's best interests. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Procedures.</i> Contracting officers at overseas contracting activities are not required to prepare an individual determination and findings to document their decision to waive the GPE notice requirements.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Competition requirements.</i> Nothing in this section waives the requirement to obtain competition as required by FAR part 6 and DOSAR (48 CFR) part 606. Competition, including the use of written solicitation, shall be obtained in all cases to the extent feasible. If there are known U.S. firms or firms with U.S. affiliations in local residence capable of supplying the required supplies or services, the contracting activity shall ensure that those firms are included in the source list for the acquisition.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Policy exclusions.</i> GPE waiver authority does not apply to local guard service contracts exceeding $250,000, or any contracts exceeding $5 million. Local guard service contracts that exceed $250,000 and other contracts that exceed $5 million shall be published in the GPE. Option year prices shall be included when computing the applicability of this threshold.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
