<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_606_302_6_T48_404307214">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">606.302-6</ph> National security.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) This subsection applies to all acquisitions involving national security information, regardless of dollar amount. In no case shall information be classified in order to restrict competition. Information may be classified only when its authorized disclosure could be expected to cause damage to national security.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Chief, Controls Division, Office of Intelligence Liaison, Directorate for Coordination, Bureau of Intelligence and Research, is responsible for reviewing and certifying on any proposed acquisitions derived from or funded or administered by intelligence community agencies that involve sensitive compartmented information and ensuring that the provisions of Executive Order 13526 and FAR 6.302-6 have been met. The Office Director, Office of Information Security, Security Infrastructure Directorate, Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS/SI/IS) is responsible for reviewing and certifying on all other proposed acquisitions funded by the Department of State that involve national security information and ensuring that the provisions of Executive Order 13256 and FAR 6.302-6 have been met. When disclosure of the Department's needs through full and open competition would compromise national security, the Justification for Other than Full and Open Competition shall include the following specific information:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) How national security would be compromised if the Department of State's (or other agencies') needs were disclosed in the GPE;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Why the GPE notice cannot be worded in such a manner that national security would not be compromised;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Necessity for access to classified information to prepare technical and/or cost proposal and level of security clearance required;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Necessity for access to classified information to perform the proposed contract and level of security clearance required;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v) Number and value of contracts that the justification covers; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vi) A statement as follows: “I hereby certify that the national security concerns of the referenced acquisition(s) meet the criteria set forth in Executive Order 12958 and FAR 6.302-6”.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any acquisition involving national security information shall be publicized in the GPE unless disclosure of the agency's needs would compromise national security.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer is responsible for soliciting offers from as many potential sources as is practicable under the circumstances. However, given the sensitivity required for acquisitions involving national security information, it is expected that requirements offices will work closely with the contracting officer in maximizing competition.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
