<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_652_228_71_T48_40436432113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">652.228-71</ph> Worker's Compensation Insurance (Defense Base Act) - Services.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 628.309-70(b), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Workers' Compensation Insurance (Defense Base Act) - Services (FEB 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This clause supplements FAR 52.228-3. For the purposes of this clause, “covered contractor employees” includes the following individuals:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) United States citizens or residents;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Individuals hired in the United States or its possessions, regardless of citizenship; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Local nationals and third country nationals where contract performance takes place in a country where there are no local workers' compensation laws.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall procure Defense Base Act (DBA) insurance directly from a Department of Labor (DOL) approved insurance provider. Approved providers can be found at the DOL Web site at <i>http://www.dol.gov/owcp/dlhwc/lscarrier.htm.</i>”
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Section 16 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act (22 U.S.C. 2680a), as amended, provides that the Defense Base Act shall not apply with respect to such contracts as the Secretary of State determines are contracts with persons employed to perform work for the Department of State on an intermittent basis for not more than 90 days in a calendar year. “Persons” includes individuals hired by companies under contract with the Department. The Procurement Executive has the authority to issue the waivers for Contractor employees who work on an intermittent or short-term basis.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor shall submit waiver requests to the contracting officer. The request shall contain the following information:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Contract number;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Name of Contractor;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Brief description of the services to be provided under the contract and country of performance;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Name and position title of individual(s);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Nationality of individual(s) (must be U.S. citizen or U.S. resident);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Dates (or timeframe) of performance at the overseas location; and,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Evidence of alternative workers' compensation coverage for these employees (e.g., evidence that the State workers' compensation program covers workers on short-term foreign assignments).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer shall provide to the Contractor the original of the approved or disapproved document and maintain a copy in the contract file.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
