<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_604_804_70_T48_404295315">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">604.804-70</ph> Contract closeout procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) This section sets forth procedures for closing out contracts awarded using other than simplified acquisition procedures by contracting activities and requirements offices. It is the Department's policy to close out contracts in the time frames prescribed by FAR Part 4.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Contracting activities are responsible for initiating each contract closeout. Contracting activities and requirements offices are jointly responsible for timely compliance with required contract closeout procedures.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contract closeout process shall begin as soon as possible after the contract is physically completed, which means that the contractor has delivered the required supplies and the Government has inspected and accepted them, or the contractor has performed and the Government has accepted all services required by the contract, and the base period and any option periods exercised have expired.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Specific procedures.</i> The normal steps for closing out a physically completed contract shall be as follows. These steps are summarized in the Contract Closeout Checklist, which shall be completed by the contracting officer and included in the contract file. The contracting officer shall indicate any items that are not applicable (e.g., patent reports, royalty reports, etc.).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contracting officer shall verify that all work under the contract has been completed; obtain the COR's assessment of the contractor's performance; and conduct an initial funds status review, <i>i.e.,</i> determine if the contract has excess funds that should be deobligated by contract modification. Contracting officers shall send a cover memo to the COR, to which should be attached the COR Completion Certificate, the applicable performance evaluation form (depending on whether the contract is for construction (SF-1420), architect-engineering services (SF-1421), or other supplies or services (DS-1771, <i>Contractor Evaluation Statement</i>)); and, a final payment and closeout memorandum. Contracting officers may require CORs to input past performance data directly into the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) as opposed to completing a paper evaluation form (see 642.1503-70).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) After receipt of the COR's response, and the contractor's release, the contracting officer shall send a final payment memo to the office responsible for payment of invoices/vouchers.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) An audit is required for cost-reimbursement contracts over $550,000, unless available data are considered adequate for a reasonableness determination, in which case the contract file shall be documented with the appropriate rationale. Requests for audits, normally by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) in accordance with the agreement DOS has with DCAA to conduct incurred cost audits, shall be submitted through the A/LM/AQM/BOD/QA Audit Team (see 642.101(b)). Cost-reimbursement contracts may be closed after receipt of the audit report and resolution of any issues raised. Quick closeout procedures may be followed, as prescribed in FAR 42.708. The contracting officer may request an audit of any contract, if warranted; however, audits should not be requested if the cost of the audit is likely to exceed potential cost recovery, except where fraud or misrepresentation is suspected.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The contracting officer shall send a letter to the contractor requesting release of claims, using the appropriate format. In addition, a Contractor Assignment Letter is required for certain contracts. To determine which format is applicable, contracting officers shall refer to the Payments clause in the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) The contracting officer shall reconcile the contract obligations and contractor payments, and then deobligate any excess funds remaining in the contract by issuing a contract modification on a SF-30. Close coordination with the finance office is necessary in order to receive the required information to perform a funds status review.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) The contracting officer shall verify that all relevant documentation is included in the contract file (see 604.803-70).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Upon completion of 8(a) contracts, the contracting officer shall complete the Small Business Administration's Contract Completion Form within ten (10) days of contract completion. One copy shall be forwarded to SBA, one copy shall be retained in the contract file, and one copy shall be sent to OSDBU.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) For classified contracts, the contractor is required to return to the Department all classified material received or generated under the contract, or to destroy all classified material, unless retention is requested and authorized by the Department. The contracting officer shall notify DS/PRD/IN of contract completion, final delivery of goods or services or the termination of the classified contract. The contracting officer shall ensure that any classified material contained in the contract file is properly marked and accounted for.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(9) Closeout documents are available on the Intranet at the A/OPE Web site.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Contract files that have been closed out shall be retained in accordance with the schedule in FAR 4.805.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) Contract files for contracts using simplified acquisition procedures are considered closed when the contracting officer receives evidence of property/services and final payment. Disposal of such files shall be as prescribed in FAR 4.805.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
