<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_619_811_1_T48_40432186116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">619.811-1</ph> Sole source.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) If the award is to be made under an MOU cited in 619.800, the contract to be awarded by the contracting activity to the 8(a) firm shall be prepared in accordance with the contracting activity's normal procedures, given contract type and dollar amount, that the contracting activity would use for a similar, non-8(a) acquisition, except for the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The award form shall cite 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5)or 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)(5), as appropriate, and 15 U.S.C. 637(a) as the authority for use of other than full and open competition.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer shall insert FAR 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting, and 652.219-71, Section 8(a) Direct Awards.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) For acquisitions exceeding $150,000, the contracting activity shall include SBA's requirement number on the award document.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) A single award document shall be used between the agency and the 8(a) contractor, <i>i.e.,</i> an SBA signature will not be required. The title of the agency contracting officer shall include the contracting activity, as follows: Contracting Officer for the Department of State [insert contracting activity]. In addition, in accordance with the MOU, OSDBU staff who have been issued limited contracting officer warrants for this purpose shall sign the contract as a third party. The 8(a) contractor's signature shall be placed on the award document as the prime contractor. The 8(a) contractor's name and address shall be placed in the “Awarded to” or “Contractor name” block on the appropriate form.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
