<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_636_104_71_T48_4043431115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">636.104-71</ph> Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Preference for United States contractors.</i> The Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-399; 22 U.S.C. 4852) limits certain construction projects abroad to United States persons or qualified United States joint venture persons. The Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 applies to the following, as determined by the Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Diplomatic construction or design projects abroad exceeding $10 million; or, 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Diplomatic construction projects abroad at any dollar amount that involve technical security, unless the project involves low-level technology. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Exception.</i> This preference shall not apply with respect to any diplomatic construction or design project in a foreign country whose statutes prohibit the use of United States contractors on such projects. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Subcontracting limitation.</i> With respect to a diplomatic construction project, a prime contractor may not subcontract more than 50 percent of the total value of the contract for that project.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
