<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_652_237_72_T48_40436432124">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">652.237-72</ph> Observance of Legal Holidays and Administrative Leave.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 637.110(b), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Observance of Legal Holidays and Administrative Leave (FEB 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Department of State observes the following days as holidays:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">New Year's Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Martin Luther King's Birthday
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Washington's Birthday
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Memorial Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Independence Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Labor Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Columbus Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Veterans Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Thanksgiving Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Christmas Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Any other day designated by Federal law, Executive Order, or Presidential Proclamation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) When New Year's Day, Independence Day, Veterans Day or Christmas Day falls on a Sunday, the following Monday is observed; when it falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday is observed. Observance of such days by Government personnel shall not be cause for additional period of performance or entitlement to compensation except as set forth in the contract. If the contractor's personnel work on a holiday, no form of holiday or other premium compensation will be reimbursed either as a direct or indirect cost, unless authorized pursuant to an overtime clause elsewhere in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) When the Department of State grants administrative leave to its Government employees, assigned contractor personnel in Government facilities shall also be dismissed. However, the contractor agrees to continue to provide sufficient personnel to perform round-the-clock requirements of critical tasks already in operation or scheduled, and shall be guided by the instructions issued by the contracting officer or his/her duly authorized representative.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) For fixed-price contracts, if services are not required or provided because the building is closed due to inclement weather, unanticipated holidays declared by the President, failure of Congress to appropriate funds, or similar reasons, deductions will be computed as follows:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The deduction rate in dollars per day will be equal to the per month contract price divided by 21 days per month.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The deduction rate in dollars per day will be multiplied by the number of days services are not required or provided. If services are provided for portions of days, appropriate adjustment will be made by the contracting officer to ensure that the contractor is compensated for services provided.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) If administrative leave is granted to contractor personnel as a result of conditions stipulated in any “Excusable Delays” clause of this contract, it will be without loss to the contractor. The cost of salaries and wages to the contractor for the period of any such excused absence shall be a reimbursable item of direct cost hereunder for employees whose regular time is normally charged, and a reimbursable item of indirect cost for employees whose time is normally charged indirectly in accordance with the contractor's accounting policy.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
