<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_609_407_3_T48_40430102114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">609.407-3</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Investigation and referral.</i> Investigation and referral shall be accomplished as provided in 609.406-3(a), except that referrals made to the suspending official shall cite causes pertinent to a suspension action (see FAR 9.407-2).
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Decisionmaking process.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			If the contractor does not respond to a notice of suspension within 30 calendar days after receipt of the notice, the suspending official may proceed with completion of investigation.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The DOS decisionmaking process for a suspension action pursuant to FAR 9.407-3(b) follow those established for a debarment action (see 609.406(b)), except that the contractor may request and shall be entitled to a hearing before the fact-finding official only if permitted under FAR 9.407-3(b)(2).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Notice of suspension.</i> Notice of suspension shall be accomplished as provided in 609.406-3(a), except that the suspending official shall process the notice in accordance with FAR 9.407-3(c).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Suspending official's decision.</i> In addition to complying with FAR 9.407-3(d), the suspending official shall provide single copies of the decision to each DOS organizational element affected by the decision.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
