<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_608_7002_T48_404309312">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">608.7002</ph> Acquisitions for the Department of State.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) A/LM funds and controls the acquisition of official vehicles required by overseas posts. Accordingly, any acquisition of official vehicles by overseas contracting activities must be approved and authorized in advance by A/LM.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) GSA is the mandatory source for U.S. manufactured vehicles acquired in the United States. Purchase requests are submitted by A/LM to GSA on behalf of overseas posts. Overseas posts shall use U.S. manufactured vehicles unless justified as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Overseas posts may acquire non-U.S. manufactured vehicles only in special cases that are approved in advance. Requests to purchase non-U.S. manufactured vehicles may be justified under the conditions specified in 6 FAM 228.9-3(B)(c). The request shall be submitted to A/LM for approval. If approval is granted to acquire non-U.S. manufactured vehicles from the local economy, overseas posts shall follow the normal procedures in the FAR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Standardization of motor vehicles shall follow the procedures in 606.370.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
