<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_602_101_70_T48_404293112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">602.101-70</ph> DOSAR definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">For the purposes of the DOSAR, unless otherwise indicated, the following terms have the meanings set forth in this subpart.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Chief of Mission</i> means the principal officer in charge of a diplomatic mission of the United States or of a United States office abroad which is designated by the Secretary of State as diplomatic in nature, including any individual assigned under section 502(c) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465) to be temporarily in charge of such a mission or office. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Consolidated Receiving Point</i> or <i>CRP</i>; means the contractor under contract to a Despatch Agency to receive and prepare items for shipment to a post. The CRP receives, records, consolidates, and packs items for shipment overseas under the direction of the Despatch Agency.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Department</i> or <i>DOS</i> means the Department of State, including all of its activities wherever located.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Despatch Agency</i> means the office responsible for the transportation of supplies between the U.S. and posts within its specific geographic area as assigned by the Office of Logistics Operations. There are six Despatch Agencies, one each in Iselin, New Jersey; Baltimore, Maryland; Miami, Florida; Seattle, Washington; Brownsville, Texas; and the European Logistical Support Office in Antwerp, Belgium. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Government</i> means the Government of the United States of America unless specifically stated otherwise.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Major system</i> has the same definition as described in FAR 2.101; however, the Department of State's dollar threshold as defined in paragraph (2) is $30 million. The Under Secretary for Management is the head of the agency for the purposes of paragraph (3).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Overseas post</i> means a “post” located outside the United States of America.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Post</i> means a diplomatic or consular mission of the United States of America, administered or managed by the DOS.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
