<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_652_206_70_T48_4043643213">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">652.206-70</ph> Advocate for Competition/Ombudsman.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 606.570, insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Advocate for Competition/Ombudsman (FEB 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Department of State's Advocate for Competition is responsible for assisting industry in removing restrictive requirements from Department of State solicitations and removing barriers to full and open competition and use of commercial items. If such a solicitation is considered competitively restrictive or does not appear properly conducive to competition and commercial practices, potential offerors are encouraged first to contact the contracting officer for the solicitation. If concerns remain unresolved, contact:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) For solicitations issued by the Office of Acquisition Management (A/LM/AQM) or a Regional Procurement Support Office, the A/LM/AQM Advocate for Competition, at <i>AQMCompetitionAdvocate@state.gov.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) For all others, the Department of State Advocate for Competition at <i>cat@state.gov.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Department of State's Acquisition Ombudsman has been appointed to hear concerns from potential offerors and contractors during the preaward and postaward phases of this acquisition. The role of the ombudsman is not to diminish the authority of the contracting officer, the Technical Evaluation Panel or Source Evaluation Board, or the selection official. The purpose of the ombudsman is to facilitate the communication of concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations of interested parties to the appropriate Government personnel, and work to resolve them. When requested and appropriate, the ombudsman will maintain strict confidentiality as to the source of the concern. The ombudsman does not participate in the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the adjudication of formal contract disputes. Interested parties are invited to contact the contracting activity ombudsman, [insert name], at [insert telephone and fax numbers]. For an American Embassy or overseas post, refer to the numbers below for the Department Acquisition Ombudsman. Concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations which cannot be resolved at a contracting activity level may be referred to the Department of State Acquisition Ombudsman at (703) 516-1680, by fax at (703) 875-6155, or write to: Department of State, Acquisition Ombudsman, Office of the Procurement Executive (A/OPE), Suite 603, SA-6, Washington, DC 20522-0602.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
