<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_649_101_70_T48_4043541112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">649.101-70</ph> Termination action decisions after debarment.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Prior to making a decision to terminate, based on the consideration listed below, the contracting officer shall have the proposed action reviewed and approved by:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Office of the Legal Adviser;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) An individual one level above the contracting officer; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) For overseas posts, A/OPE.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Termination for default.</i> Termination for default under a contract's default clause is appropriate when the circumstances giving rise to the debarment or suspension also constitute a default in the contractor's performance of that contract. Debarment or suspension of the contractor for reasons unrelated to the performance of that contract may not support a termination for default.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Termination for convenience or cancellation.</i> Termination for convenience or cancellation under appropriate contract clauses should be considered when the contractor presents a significant risk to the Government in completing a current contract and when such termination for convenience or cancellation is determined to be in the Government's best interests. In making this determination, the contracting officer should consider such factors as the - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Seriousness of the cause for debarment or suspension;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Extent of contract performance;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Potential costs to the Government;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Urgency of the requirement and the impact of the delay; and/or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Availability of other safeguards to protect the Government's interests.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
