<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_652_236_70_T48_40436432119">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">652.236-70</ph> Additional Safety Measures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 636.513, insert the following clause.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">ADDITIONAL SAFETY MEASURES (OCT 2017)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">In addition to the safety/accident prevention requirements of FAR 52.236-13, Accident Prevention Alternate I, the contractor shall comply with the following additional safety measures.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>High risk activities.</i> If the project contains any of the following high risk activities, the contractor shall follow the section in the latest edition, as of the date of the solicitation, of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Safety and Health manual, EM 385-1-1, that corresponds to the high risk activity. Before work may proceed, the contractor must obtain approval from the COR of the written safety plan required by FAR 52.236-13, Accident Prevention Alternate I (see paragraph (f) of this clause), containing specific hazard mitigation and control techniques.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Scaffolding;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Work at heights above 1.8 meters;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Trenching or other excavation greater than one (1) meter in depth;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Earth-moving equipment and other large vehicles;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Cranes and rigging;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Welding or cutting and other hot work;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Partial or total demolition of a structure;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) Temporary wiring, use of portable electric tools, or other recognized electrical hazards. Temporary wiring and portable electric tools require the use of a ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) in the affected circuits; other electrical hazards may also require the use of a GFCI;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(9) Work in confined spaces (limited exits, potential for oxygen less than 19.5 percent or combustible atmosphere, potential for solid or liquid engulfment, or other hazards considered to be immediately dangerous to life or health such as water tanks, transformer vaults, sewers, cisterns, etc.);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(10) Hazardous materials - a material with a physical or health hazard including but not limited to, flammable, explosive, corrosive, toxic, reactive or unstable, or any operations, which creates any kind of contamination inside an occupied building such as dust from demolition activities, paints, solvents, etc.; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(11) Hazardous noise levels as required in EM 385-1 Section 5B or local standards if more restrictive.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Safety and health requirements.</i> The contractor and all subcontractors shall comply with the latest edition of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Safety and Health manual EM 385-1-1, or OSHA 29 CFR part 1910 or 1926 if no EM 385-1-1 requirements are applicable, and the accepted contractor's written safety program.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Mishap reporting.</i> The contractor is required to report <i>immediately</i> all mishaps to the COR and the contracting officer. A “mishap” is any event causing injury, disease or illness, death, material loss or property damage, or incident causing environmental contamination. The mishap reporting requirement shall include fires, explosions, hazardous materials contamination, and other similar incidents that may threaten people, property, and equipment.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Records.</i> The contractor shall maintain an accurate record on all mishaps incident to work performed under this contract resulting in death, traumatic injury, occupational disease, or damage to or theft of property, materials, supplies, or equipment. The contractor shall report this data in the manner prescribed by the contracting officer.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Subcontracts.</i> The contractor shall insert this clause, including this paragraph (e), with appropriate changes in the designation of the parties, in subcontracts.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Written program.</i> The plan required by paragraph (f)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of the clause entitled “Accident Prevention Alternate I” shall be known as the Site Safety and Health Plan (SSHP) and shall address any activities listed in paragraph (a) of this clause, or as otherwise required by the contracting officer/COR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The SSHP shall be submitted at least 10 working days prior to commencing any activity at the site.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The plan must address developing activity hazard analyses (AHAs) for specific tasks. The AHAs shall define the activities being performed and identify the work sequences, the specific anticipated hazards, site conditions, equipment, materials, and the control measures to be implemented to eliminate or reduce each hazard to an acceptable level of risk. Work shall not begin until the AHA for the work activity has been accepted by the COR and discussed with all engaged in the activity, including the Contractor, subcontractor(s), and Government on-site representatives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The names of the Competent/Qualified Person(s) required for a particular activity (for example, excavations, scaffolding, fall protection, other activities as specified by EM 385-1-1) shall be identified and included in the AHA. Proof of their competency/qualification shall be submitted to the contracting officer or COR for acceptance prior to the start of that work activity. The AHA shall be reviewed and modified as necessary to address changing site conditions, operations, or change of competent/qualified person(s).
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
