<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_619_803_71_T48_4043218614">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">619.803-71</ph> Simplified procedures for 8(a) acquisitions under MOUs.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Contracting activities may use the simplified acquisition procedures of FAR part 13 and DOSAR part 613 to issue purchase orders or contracts, not exceeding $150,000, to 8(a) participants. The $150,000 limitation for use of FAR part 13 simplified acquisition procedures applies to the acquisition of both commercial and non-commercial items. The following applies to such acquisitions:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Neither offering letters to, nor acceptance letters from, the SBA are required.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting activity shall use the System for Award Management (<i>https://www.sam.gov</i>) to establish that the selected 8(a) firm is a current program participant.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Once an 8(a) contractor has been identified, the agency contracting officer shall establish the price with the selected 8(a) contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The contracting officer shall issue the purchase order or contract directly to the 8(a) firm in accordance with the provisions of FAR part 13 and DOSAR part 613. The contracting officer shall insert FAR 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting, and 652.219-71, Section 8(a) Direct Award, in all purchase orders and contracts awarded under this subsection. The contracting officer's title shall include the contracting activity, as follows: Contracting Officer for the Department of State [insert contracting activity]. In addition, in accordance with the MOU, OSDBU staff who have been issued limited contracting officer warrants for this purpose, shall sign the purchase order or contract as a third party.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contracting officer shall forward to the SBA District Office serving the 8(a) firm a copy of the purchase order or contract within five days after the order is issued.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
