<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_232_72_T48_60955371132">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.232-72</ph> Limitation of Government's obligation.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 2432.705-70, use the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Limitation of Government's Obligation (DEC 2012)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Funds are not available for full funding of all contract line items under this contract. The incrementally funded line items and their anticipated funding schedule are as follows:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="DIV">
                                       
                                          <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="4" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1">Contract line item number
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2">Total price
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3">Amount of current funding
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4">Anticipated date(s) of future
funding
</entry>
                                             </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                       
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The contracting officer will revise this table as funds are allotted to the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) For the incrementally funded line item(s) in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor agrees to perform up to the point at which the total amount payable by the Government, including reimbursement in the event of termination of those item(s) for the Government's convenience, approximates the total amount currently allotted to the contract for these contract line items. The Contractor is not authorized to continue work on the incrementally funded line item(s) beyond that point. The Government will in no event be obligated to reimburse the Contractor in excess of the amount allotted to the contract for the incrementally funded line item(s) regardless of anything to the contrary in the clause entitled “<i>Termination for Convenience of the Government.</i>” As used in this clause, the total amount payable by the Government in the event of termination for convenience of applicable line item(s) includes costs, profit, and estimated termination settlement costs for those line item(s).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Notwithstanding the dates specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor will notify the Contracting Officer in writing at least __ [<i>90 days unless the Contracting Officer inserts a different number</i>] days prior to the date when, in the Contractor's best judgment, the work will reach the point at which the total amount payable by the Government, including any cost for termination for convenience, will approximate 85 percent of the total amount then allotted to the contract for performance of the applicable line item(s). This notification will state: the estimated date when that point will be reached; and an estimate of the amount of additional funding, if any, needed to continue performance of the applicable line items up to the next scheduled date for allotment of funds identified in paragraph (a) of this clause (or to another mutually agreed-upon date). The notification will also advise the Contracting Officer of the estimated amount of additional funds that will be required for the timely performance of the line item(s) funded pursuant to this clause, for a subsequent period as may be specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (a) of this clause or otherwise agreed to by the parties. If after such notification additional funds are not allotted by the date identified in the Contractor's notification, or by an agreed-upon date, the Contracting Officer will terminate any line item(s) for which additional funds have not been allotted, pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled “<i>Termination for Convenience of the Government.</i>”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) When additional funds are allotted for continued performance of the incrementally funded line item(s), the parties will agree to the period of contract performance covered by the funds. The provisions of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this clause will apply in like manner to the additional allotted funds and agreed-upon date(s), and the contract will be modified accordingly.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) If the Contractor incurs additional costs or is delayed in the performance of the work under this contract solely by reason of the failure of the Government to allot additional funds in amounts sufficient for timely performance of the incrementally funded line item(s), and then additional funds are allotted, an equitable adjustment will be made in the line item price(s) or in the time of delivery, or both. Failure to agree to any such equitable adjustment hereunder shall be considered a dispute subject to the “<i>Disputes</i>” clause in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Government may allot additional funds for the performance of the incrementally-funded line item(s) at any time prior to termination.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The termination provisions of this clause do not limit the rights of the Government under the clause entitled “<i>Default.</i>” The provisions of this clause are limited to the work and allotment of funds for the incrementally funded line item(s) and will no longer apply once the contract is fully funded except with regard to the rights or obligations of the parties concerning equitable adjustments negotiated under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) Nothing in this clause affects the right of the Government to terminate this contract pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled “<i>Termination for Convenience of the Government.</i>”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) Nothing in this clause shall be construed as authorization of voluntary services whose acceptance is otherwise prohibited under 31 U.S.C. 1342.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
