<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.232-71</ph> Voucher submission (cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials, and labor hour).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HUDAR Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513"
                  href="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513.dita#Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513">2432.908</xref>(c)(3), insert the following clause in all cost-reimbursable, time-and-materials, and labor-hour solicitations and contracts where vouchering and payments will NOT be made through the Department of Treasury's Bureau of Fiscal Services Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) system:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">
            <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131"
                  href="Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131.dita#Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131">2452.232-71</xref> VOUCHER SUBMISSION (COST-REIMBURSEMENT, TIME-AND-MATERIALS, AND LABOR-HOUR) (APR 2019)
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Voucher submission.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall submit ___ [Contracting Officer insert billing period, <i>e.g.,</i> monthly], an original and two copies of each voucher. In addition to the items required by the clause at FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, the voucher shall show the elements of cost for the billing period and the cumulative costs to date. The Contractor shall submit all vouchers, except for the final voucher, as follows: Original to the payment office and one copy each to the Contracting Officer and the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) identified in the contract. The Contractor shall submit all copies of the final voucher to the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) To assist the Government in making timely payments, the Contractor is requested to include on each voucher the applicable appropriation number(s) shown on the award or subsequent modification document (<i>e.g.,</i> block 14 of the Standard Form (SF) 26, or block 21 of the SF-33). The Contractor is also requested to clearly indicate on the mailing envelope that a payment voucher is enclosed.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Contractor remittance information.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall provide the payment office with all information required by other payment clauses contained in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor shall submit all necessary supporting documentation with vouchers that adequately demonstrate that costs claimed (1) have been incurred (including time sheets from the prime and subcontractor's automated or manual time tracking records and paid invoices for materials acquired), (2) reflect that they are allocable to the contract tasks, and (3) comply with cost principles in the Federal Acquisition Regulation and HUD Acquisition Regulation. The Contracting Officer may disallow all or part of a claimed cost that is inadequately supported.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) For time-and-materials and labor-hour contracts, the Contractor shall aggregate vouchered costs by the individual task for which the costs were incurred and clearly identify the task or job.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Final payment.</i> The final payment shall not be made until the Contracting Officer has certified that the Contractor has complied with all terms of the contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD1">Alternate I (APR 2019)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HUDAR Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513"
                  href="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513.dita#Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513">2432.908</xref>(c)(3), replace paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) with the following Alternate I paragraphs to HUDAR Clause <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131"
                  href="Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131.dita#Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131">2452.232-71</xref>, Voucher Submission (Cost Reimbursement, Time-and-Materials, and Labor Hour) in time and material, cost-reimbursable and labor hour solicitations and contracts other than performance-based under which performance-based payments will be used and where invoices are to be submitted electronically by email, but will not be paid through the Department of Treasury's Bureau of Fiscal Services Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) system.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Voucher submission.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall submit vouchers electronically via email to the email addresses shown on the contract award document (<i>e.g.,</i> block 12 of the Standard Form (SF) 26, block 25 of the SF-33, or block 18a of the SF-1449) and carbon copy the Contracting Officer and the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). In addition to the items required by the clause at FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, the voucher shall show the elements of cost for the billing period and the cumulative costs to date. The Contractor shall clearly include in the Subject line of the email: VOUCHER INCLUDED; CONTRACT/ORDER #: ___, VOUCHER NUMBER ___ and CONTRACT LINE ITEM NUMBER(S) ___
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) To assist the Government in making timely payments, the Contractor is requested to include on each voucher the applicable appropriation number(s) shown on the award or subsequent modification document (<i>e.g.,</i> block 14 of the Standard Form (SF) 26, or block 21 of the SF-33).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of Alternate I)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HUDAR Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513"
                  href="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513.dita#Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513">2432.908</xref>(c)(3), replace paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of the HUDAR Clause <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131"
                  href="Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131.dita#Section_2452_232_71_T48_60955371131">2452.232-71</xref>, Voucher Submission (Cost- Reimbursement, Time-And-Materials, And Labor Hour) with the following Alternate II language in all cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials, and labor-hour type solicitations and contracts when requiring vouchers to be submitted electronically to the Department of Treasury's Bureau of Fiscal Services Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) system.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD1">Alternate II (APR 2019)
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Voucher submission.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall obtain access and submit invoices to the Department of Treasury Bureau of Fiscal Services' Invoice Platform Processing System via the Web at URL: <i>https://arc.publicdebt.treas.gov/ipp/fsippqrg.htm</i> in accordance with the instructions on the website. To constitute a proper voucher, in addition to the items required by the clause at FAR 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, the voucher shall show the elements of cost for the billing period and the cumulative costs to date.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) To assist the Government in making timely payments, the Contractor is requested to include on each voucher the applicable appropriation number(s) shown on the award or subsequent modification document (<i>e.g.,</i> block 14 of the Standard Form (SF) 26, or block 21 of the SF-33).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of Alternate II)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
