<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_215_70_T48_6095537117">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.215-70</ph> Proposal content.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113"
                  href="Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113.dita#Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113">2415.209</xref>(a), insert a provision substantially the same as the following:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Proposal Content (MAR 2016)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Proposals shall be submitted in two parts as described in paragraphs (c) and (d) below. Each of the parts must be complete in itself so that evaluation of each part may be conducted independently, and so the identified parts of each proposal may be evaluated strictly on its own merit. Proposals shall be submitted in the format, if any, prescribed elsewhere in this solicitation. Proposals shall be enclosed in sealed packaging and addressed to the office specified in the solicitation. The offeror's name and address, the solicitation number and the date and time specified in the solicitation for proposal submission must appear in writing on the outside of the package.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The number of proposals required is an original and [<i>insert number</i>] copies of Part I, and [<i>insert number</i>] copies of Part II.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Part I - Technical Proposal.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The offeror shall submit the information required in Instructions to Offerors designated under Part I - Technical Proposal.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Part II - Business Proposal.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The offeror shall complete the Representations and Certifications provided in Section K of this solicitation and include them in Part II, Business Proposal.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The offeror shall provide information to support the offeror's proposed costs or prices as prescribed elsewhere in Instructions to Offerors for Part II - Business Proposal.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The offeror shall submit any other information required in Instructions to Offerors designated under Part II - Business Proposal.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (MAR 2016) As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113"
                  href="Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113.dita#Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113">2415.209</xref>(a), if the proposed contract requires work on, or access to, sensitive automated systems as described in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2452_239_70_T48_60955371144"
                  href="Section_2452_239_70_T48_60955371144.dita#Section_2452_239_70_T48_60955371144">2452.239-70</xref>, add the following subparagraph, numbered sequentially, to paragraph (d):
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The offeror shall describe in detail how the offeror will maintain the security of automated systems as required by clause <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2452_239_70_T48_60955371144"
                  href="Section_2452_239_70_T48_60955371144.dita#Section_2452_239_70_T48_60955371144">2452.239-70</xref> in Section I of this solicitation and include it in Part II, Business Proposal.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD2">Alternate II&gt;
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD1">Proposal Content Alternate II (APR 2019)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113"
                  href="Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113.dita#Section_2415_209_T48_6095014113">2415.209</xref>(a), add the following paragraph (e) when the size of any proposal Part I or Part II will be limited:
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Size limits of Parts I and II.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Offerors shall limit submissions of Parts I and II of their initial proposals to the page limitations identified in the Instructions to Offerors. Offerors are cautioned that, if any Part of their proposal exceeds the stipulated limits for that Part, the Government will evaluate only the information contained in the pages up through the permitted number. Pages beyond that limit will not be evaluated.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) A page shall consist of one side of a single sheet of 8.5″ x 11″ paper, single-spaced, using not smaller than 12-point type font, and having margins at the top, bottom, and sides of the page of no less than one inch in width.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Any exemptions from this limitation are stipulated under the Instructions to Offerors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Offerors are encouraged to use recycled paper and to use both sides of the paper (see the FAR clause at 52.204-4).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
