<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_232_70_T48_60955371130">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.232-70</ph> Payment schedule and invoice submission (Fixed-Price).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HUDAR Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513"
                  href="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513.dita#Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513">2432.908</xref>(c)(2), insert the following clause in all fixed price solicitations and contracts where invoicing and payments will NOT be made through the Department of Treasury's Bureau of Fiscal Services Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) system:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Payment Schedule and Invoice Submission (Fixed-Price) (MAR 2016)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Payment schedule.</i> Payment of the contract price (see Section B of the contract) will be made upon completion and acceptance of all work unless a partial payment schedule is included below.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[Contracting Officer insert schedule information]:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="DIV">
                                       
                                          <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="4" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1">Partial payment number
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2">Applicable contract
deliverable
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3">Delivery date
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4">Payment
amount
</entry>
                                             </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left">1. [ ]
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left">2. [ ]
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left">3. [ ]</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left"/>
                                             </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                       
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[<i>Continue as necessary</i>]
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Submission of invoices.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall submit invoices as follows: original to the payment office and one copy each to the Contracting Officer and a copy to the Government Technical Representative (GTR) identified in the contract. To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include all items required by the FAR clause at 52.232-25, “Prompt Payment.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) To assist the government in making timely payments, the contractor is also requested to include on each invoice the appropriation number shown on the contract award document (<i>e.g.,</i> block 14 of the Standard Form (SF) 26, block 21 of the SF-33, or block 25 of the SF-1449). The contractor is also requested to clearly indicate on the mailing envelope that an invoice is enclosed.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Contractor remittance information.</i> The contractor shall provide the payment office with all information required by other payment clauses or other supplemental information (<i>e.g.,</i> contracts for commercial services) contained in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Final invoice payment.</i> The final invoice will not be paid prior to certification by the Contracting Officer that all work has been completed and accepted.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (MAR 2016) As prescribed in HUDAR section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513"
                  href="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513.dita#Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513">2432.908</xref>(c)(2), replace paragraph (b)(1) and (b)(2) with the following Alternate I paragraphs to HUDAR Clause <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2452_232_70_T48_60955371130"
                  href="Section_2452_232_70_T48_60955371130.dita#Section_2452_232_70_T48_60955371130">2452.232-70</xref> Payment Schedule and Invoice Submission (Fixed-price) for fixed price solicitations and contracts other than performance-based under which performance-based payments will be used and where invoices are to be submitted electronically by email but will not be paid through the Department of Treasury's Bureau of Fiscal Services Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) system:
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Submission of invoices.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contractor shall submit invoices electronically via email to the email addresses shown on the contract award document (<i>e.g.,</i> block 12 of the Standard Form (SF) 26, block 25 of the SF-33, or block 18a of the SF-1449) and carbon copy the Contracting Officer and the Government Technical Representative (GTR). To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include all items required by the FAR clause at 52.232-25, “Prompt Payment.” The contractor shall clearly include in the Subject line of the email: INVOICE INCLUDED; CONTRACT/ORDER #: ___, INVOICE NUMBER ___ and Contract Line Item Number(s) ___.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) To assist the government in making timely payments, the contractor is also requested to include on each invoice the appropriation number shown on the contract award document (<i>e.g.,</i> block 14 of the Standard Form (SF) 26, block 21 of the SF-33, or block 25 of the SF-1449).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of Alternate I)
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD1">Alternate II (APR 2019)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HUDAR Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513"
                  href="Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513.dita#Section_2432_908_T48_6095226513">2432.908</xref>(c)(2), replace paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of the HUDAR Clause <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2452_232_70_T48_60955371130"
                  href="Section_2452_232_70_T48_60955371130.dita#Section_2452_232_70_T48_60955371130">2452.232-70</xref> Payment Schedule and Invoice Submission (Fixed-price) with the following Alternate II language in all fixed-price solicitations and contracts when requiring invoices to be submitted electronically to the Department of Treasury's Bureau of Fiscal Services Invoice Processing Platform (IPP) system:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
                                       <i>(b) Submission of invoices.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall obtain access and submit invoices to the Department of Treasury Bureau of Fiscal Services' Invoice Platform Processing System via the Web at URL: <i>https://arc.publicdebt.treas.gov/ipp/fsippqrg.htm</i> in accordance with the instructions on the website. To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include all items required by the FAR clause at 52.232-25, “Prompt Payment.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) To assist the Government in making timely payments, the Contractor is also requested to include on each invoice the appropriation number shown on the contract award document (<i>e.g.,</i> block 14 of the Standard Form (SF) 26, block 21 of the SF-33, or block 25 of the SF-1449).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of Alternate II)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
