<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_209_70_T48_6095537114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.209-70</ph> Potential organizational conflicts of interest.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2409_507_1_T48_6094910313"
                  href="Section_2409_507_1_T48_6094910313.dita#Section_2409_507_1_T48_6094910313">2409.507-1</xref>, the Contracting Officer may insert a provision substantially the same as follows in solicitations:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Potential Organizational Conflicts of Interest (FEB 2000)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer has determined that the proposed contract contains a potential organizational conflict of interest. Offerors are directed to FAR subpart 9.5 for detailed information concerning organizational conflicts of interest.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The nature of the potential conflict of interest is [<i>Contracting Officer insert description</i>]:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Offerors shall provide a statement which describes concisely all relevant facts concerning any past, present or planned interest (financial, contractual, organizational, or otherwise) relating to the work to be performed under the proposed contract and bearing on whether the offeror has a possible organizational conflict of interest with respect to:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Being able to render impartial, technically sound, and objective assistance or advice, or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Being given an unfair competitive advantage. The offeror may also provide relevant facts that show how its organizational structure and/or management systems limit its knowledge of possible organizational conflicts of interest relating to other divisions or sections of the organization and how that structure or system would avoid or mitigate such organizational conflict.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) No award shall be made until any potential conflict of interest has been neutralized or mitigated to the satisfaction of the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Refusal to provide the requested information or the willful misrepresentation of any relevant information by an offeror shall disqualify the offeror from further consideration for award of a contract under this solicitation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) If the Contracting Officer determines that a potential conflict can be avoided, effectively mitigated, or otherwise resolved through the inclusion of a special contract clause, the terms of the clause will be subject to negotiation.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
