<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_237_73_T48_60955371137">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.237-73</ph> Conduct of work and technical guidance.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2437_110_T48_6095330111"
                  href="Section_2437_110_T48_6095330111.dita#Section_2437_110_T48_6095330111">2437.110</xref>(e)(2), insert the following clause in all contracts for services:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">CONDUCT OF WORK AND TECHNICAL GUIDANCE (APR 2019)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer will provide the Contractor with the name and contact information of the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) assigned to this contract. The COR will serve as the Contractor's liaison with the Contracting Officer with regard to the conduct of work. The Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor in writing of any change to the current COR's status or the designation of a successor COR.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The COR for liaison with the Contractor as to the conduct of work is [to be inserted at time of award] or a successor designated by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The COR will provide guidance to the Contractor on the technical performance of the contract. Such guidance shall not be of a nature which:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Causes the Contractor to perform work outside the statement of work or specifications of the contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Constitutes a change as defined in FAR 52.243-1;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Causes an increase or decrease in the cost of the contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Alters the period of performance or delivery dates; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Changes any of the other express terms or conditions of the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The COR will issue technical guidance in writing or, if issued orally, he/she will confirm such direction in writing within five (5) calendar days after oral issuance. The COR may issue such guidance via telephone, facsimile (fax), or electronic mail.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Other specific limitations [to be inserted by Contracting Officer]:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer whenever the Contractor believes that guidance provided by any government personnel, whether or not specifically provided pursuant to this clause, is of a nature described in paragraph (b) of this clause.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
