<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_219_72_T48_60955371125">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.219-72</ph> Section 8(a) direct awards.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2419_811_3_T48_60951174116"
                  href="Section_2419_811_3_T48_60951174116.dita#Section_2419_811_3_T48_60951174116">2419.811-3</xref>(f), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">SECTION 8(A) DIRECT AWARD (APR 2019)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This contract is issued as a direct award between the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the 8(a) Contractor pursuant to a Partnership Agreement (Agreement) between the Small Business Administration (SBA) and HUD. The SBA retains responsibility for 8(a) certification, 8(a) eligibility determinations and related issues, and providing counseling and assistance to the 8(a) contractor under the 8(a) program. The cognizant SBA district office is:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[To be completed by Contracting Officer at time of award].
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) SBA is the prime contractor and ___[insert name of 8(a) contractor] is the subcontractor under this contract. Under the terms of the Agreement, HUD is responsible for administering the contract and taking any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the contract. However, the HUD Contracting Officer shall give advance notice to the SBA before issuing a final notice terminating performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract. The HUD Contracting Officer shall also coordinate with SBA prior to processing any novation agreement(s). HUD may assign contract administration functions to a contract administration office.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) ___[insert name of 8(a) contractor] agrees:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) To notify the HUD Contracting Officer, simultaneously with its notification to SBA (as required by SBA's 8(a) regulations), when the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility is based, plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern. Consistent with 15 U.S.C. 637(a)(21), transfer of ownership or control shall result in termination of the contract for convenience unless SBA waives the requirement for termination prior to the actual relinquishing of ownership or control.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) To adhere to the requirements of FAR 52.219-14, “Limitations on Subcontracting.”</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of Clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
