<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_216_75_T48_60955371115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.216-75</ph> Unpriced task orders.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2416_506_70_T48_6095015313"
                  href="Section_2416_506_70_T48_6095015313.dita#Section_2416_506_70_T48_6095015313">2416.506-70</xref>(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Unpriced Task Orders (FEB 2006)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Prior to the issuance of a task order under this contract, it is anticipated that the government and the contractor will reach agreement on the price or total cost and fee (if applicable) for the services to be provided under the order. The Contracting Officer may authorize commencement of work prior to final agreement on cost or price. In such case, the contractor shall immediately commence performance of the services specified in the order and shall submit a pricing proposal within 15 days of receipt of the task order. Upon completion of negotiations, the final negotiated cost or price will be set forth in a supplemental agreement that is executed by the contractor and the Contracting Officer. Failure to agree upon the cost or price shall be considered a dispute subject to the Disputes clause of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Unpriced task orders shall indicate a “not-to-exceed” amount for the order; however, such amount shall not exceed 50 percent of the estimated cost of the task order. The task order shall only require the Contracting Officer's signature, but shall also comply with all other task order requirements. Unpriced task orders shall indicate the date by which the government anticipates that the cost or price of the order will be definitized.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
