<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_224_71_T48_4018362115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.224-71</ph> Confidential Information.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 324.105(b), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Confidential Information (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Confidential Information, as used in this clause, means information or data of a personal nature about an individual, or proprietary information or data submitted by or pertaining to an institution or organization.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Specific information or categories of information that the Government will furnish to the Contractor, or that the Contractor is expected to generate, which are confidential may be identified elsewhere in this contract. The Contracting Officer may modify this contract to identify Confidential Information from time to time during performance.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Confidential Information or records shall not be disclosed by the Contractor until:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Written advance notice of at least 45 days shall be provided to the Contracting Officer of the Contractor's intent to release findings of studies or research, to which an agency response may be appropriate to protect the public interest or that of the agency.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) For information provided by or on behalf of the government,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The publication or dissemination of the following types of information are restricted under this contract: [INSERT RESTRICTED TYPES OF INFORMATION. IF NONE, SO STATE.]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The reason(s) for restricting the types of information identified in subparagraph (i) is/are: [STATE WHY THE PUBLIC OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST REQUIRES THE RESTRICTION OF EACH TYPE OF INFORMATION. ANY BASIS FOR NONDISCLOSURE WHICH WOULD BE VALID UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT IS SUFFICIENT UNDER THIS CLAUSE.]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Written advance notice of at least 45 days shall be provided to the Contracting Officer of the Contractor's intent to disseminate or publish information identified in subparagraph (2)(i). The contractor shall not disseminate or publish such information without the written consent of the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Whenever the Contractor is uncertain with regard to the confidentiality of or a property interest in information under this contract, the Contractor should consult with the Contracting Officer prior to any release, disclosure, dissemination, or publication.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
