<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_237_72_T48_4018362129">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.237-72</ph> Crime Control Act - Requirement for Background Checks.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 337.103(d)(3), the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Crime Control Act of 1990 - Requirement for Background Checks (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Public Law 101-647, also known as the Crime Control Act of 1990 (Act), requires that all individuals involved with the provision of child care services to children under the age of 18 undergo a criminal background check. “Child care services” include, but are not limited to, social services, health and mental health care, child (day) care, education (whether or not directly involved in teaching), and rehabilitative programs. Any conviction for a sex crime, an offense involving a child victim, or a drug felony, may be grounds for denying employment or for dismissal of an employee providing any of the services listed above.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contracting Officer will provide the necessary information to the Contractor regarding the process for obtaining the background check. The Contractor may hire a staff person provisionally prior to the completion of a background check, if at all times prior to the receipt of the background check during which children are in the care of the newly-hired person, the person is within the sight and under the supervision of a previously investigated staff person.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) By acceptance of this contract or order, the Contractor agrees to comply with the requirements of the Act. The Act also applies to all applicable subcontracts awarded under this contract. Accordingly, the Contractor shall ensure that each of its employees, and any subcontractor staff, is made aware of, understands, and complies with the provisions of the Act.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
