<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_226_2_T48_4018362117">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.226-2</ph> Indian Preference Program.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 326.505(b), the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Indian Preference Program (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In addition to the requirements of the clause of this contract entitled “Indian Preference,” the Contractor agrees to establish and conduct an Indian preference program which will expand opportunities for Indians to receive preference for employment and training in connection with the work performed under this contract, and which will expand the opportunities for Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises to receive a preference in the awarding of subcontracts. In this connection, the Contractor shall perform the following:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Designate a liaison officer who will maintain liaison with the Government and the Tribe(s) on Indian preference matters; supervise compliance with the provisions of this clause; and administer the Contractor's Indian preference program.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Advise its recruitment sources in writing and include a statement in all employment advertisements that Indian applicants receive preference in employment and training incident to such employment.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Not more than 20 calendar days after award of the contract, post a written notice setting forth the Contractor's employment needs and related training opportunities in the tribal office of any reservations on or near the contract work location. The notice shall include the approximate numbers and types of employees needed; the approximate dates of employment; any experience or special skills required for employment; training opportunities available; and other pertinent information necessary to advise prospective employees of any other employment requirements. The Contractor shall also request the tribe(s) on or near whose reservation(s) the Contractor will perform contract work to provide assistance filling its employment needs and training opportunities. The Contracting Officer will advise the Contractor of the name, location, and phone number of the Tribal officials to contact regarding the posting of notices and requests for Tribal assistance.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Establish and conduct a subcontracting program which gives preference to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises as subcontractors (including suppliers) under this contract. The Contractor shall give public notice of existing subcontracting opportunities and, to the extent feasible and consistent with the efficient performance of this contract, shall solicit bids or proposals from Indian organizations or Indian-owned economic enterprises only. The Contractor shall request assistance and information on Indian firms qualified as subcontractors (including suppliers) from the Tribe(s) on or near whose reservation(s) the Contractor will perform contract work. The Contracting Officer will advise the Contractor of the name, location, and phone number of the Tribal officials to contact regarding the request for assistance and information. Public notices and solicitations for existing subcontracting opportunities shall provide an equitable opportunity for Indian firms to submit bids or proposals by including - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) A clear description of the supplies or services required, including quantities, specifications, and delivery schedules that facilitate the participation of Indian firms;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) A statement indicating that Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises will receive preference in accordance with section 7(b) of Public Law 93-638; 88 Stat. 2205; 25 U.S.C. 450e(b);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Definitions for the terms “Indian organization” and “Indian-owned economic enterprise” prescribed under the “Indian Preference” clause of this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) A statement that the bidder or offeror shall complete certifying that it is an Indian organization or Indian-owned economic enterprise; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) A closing date for receipt of bids or proposals which provides sufficient time for preparation and submission of a bid or proposal. If, after soliciting bids or proposals from Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises, the Contractor receives no responsive bid or acceptable proposal, the Contractor shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (d) of the “Indian Preference” clause of this contract. If the Contractor receives one or more responsive bids or conforming proposals, the Contractor shall award the contract to the low, responsive, responsible bidder or conforming offer from a responsible offeror if the price is reasonable. If the Contractor determines the low responsive bid or conforming proposal's price is unreasonable, the Contractor shall attempt to negotiate a reasonable price and award a subcontract. If parties cannot agree on a reasonable price, the Contractor shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (d) of the “Indian Preference” clause of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Maintain written records under this contract which demonstrate - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The numbers of Indians seeking employment for each employment position available under this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The number and types of positions filled by Indians and non-Indians;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The total number of Indians employed under this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) For those positions having both Indian and non-Indian applicants, and a non-Indian is selected for employment, the reason(s) why the Contractor did not select the Indian applicant;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Actions taken to give preference to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises for subcontracting opportunities which exist under this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Reasons why Indian subcontractors and or suppliers did not receive preference for each requirement where the Contractor determined that such preference was inconsistent with efficient contract performance; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vii) The number of Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises contacted, and the number receiving subcontract awards under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Submit to the Contracting Officer for approval a quarterly report summarizing the Contractor's Indian preference program and indicating the number and types of available positions filled by Indians and non-Indians, and the dollar amounts of all subcontracts awarded to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises, and to all other firms.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) Maintain records pursuant to this clause and keep them available for review by the Government for one year after final payment under this contract, or for such longer period in accordance with requirements of any other clause of this contract or by applicable law or regulation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) For purposes of this clause, the following definitions of terms shall apply:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The terms <i>Indian, Indian tribe,</i> 
                                       <i>Indian organization,</i> and <i>Indian-owned economic enterprise</i> are defined in the clause of this contract entitled <i>Indian Preference.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Indian reservation</i> includes Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, former Indian reservations in Oklahoma, and land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601 <i>et seq.</i>)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>On or near an Indian reservation</i> means on a reservation or reservations or within that area surrounding an Indian reservation(s) where a person seeking employment could reasonably expect to commute to and from in the course of a work day.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Nothing in the requirements of this clause shall preclude Indian tribes from independently developing and enforcing their own Indian preference requirements. Such requirements must not conflict with any Federal statutory or regulatory requirement dealing with the award and administration of contracts.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor agrees to include the provisions of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in each subcontract awarded at any tier under this contract and to notify the Contracting Officer of such subcontracts.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) In the event of noncompliance with this clause, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract in whole or in part or may pursue any other remedies authorized by law or by other provisions of the contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
