<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_337_103_T48_401633111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">337.103</ph> Contracting officer responsibility.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 352.237-70, Pro-Children Act, in solicitations, contracts, and orders that involve:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Kindergarten, elementary, or secondary education or library services; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Health or daycare services that are provided to children under the age of 18 on a routine or regular basis pursuant to the Pro-Children Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 6081-6084).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 352.237-71, Crime Control Act - Reporting of Child Abuse, in solicitations, contracts, and orders that require performance on Federal land or in a federally operated (or contracted) facility and involve the professions/activities performed by persons specified in the Crime Control Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13031) including, but not limited to, teachers, social workers, physicians, nurses, dentists, health care practitioners, optometrists, psychologists, emergency medical technicians, alcohol or drug treatment personnel, child care workers and administrators, emergency medical technicians and ambulance drivers.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 352.237-72, Crime Control Act - Requirement for Background Checks, in solicitations, contracts, and orders that involve providing child care services to children under the age of 18, including social services, health and mental health care, child- (day) care, education (whether or not directly involved in teaching), and rehabilitative programs covered under the Crime Control Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13041).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Contracting officers supporting the Indian Health Service shall insert the clause at 352.237-73, Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Act in all solicitations, contracts, and orders when performance of the contract may involve regular contact with or control over Indian children. The required declaration shall also be included in Section J of the solicitation and contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 352.237-74, Non-Discrimination in Service Delivery, in solicitations, contracts, and orders to deliver services under HHS' programs directly to the public.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 352.237-75, Key Personnel, in solicitations and contracts when the contracting officer will require the contractor to designate contractor key personnel.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
