<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1035855" outputclass="1">
      <title outputclass="Heading1">ANNEX 2 - BUSINESS CLEARANCE MEMORANDUM</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="Normal">BUSINESS CLEARANCE MEMORANDUM</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Number _______________</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION I – COVER AND SIGNATURE PAGES</p>
         <table frame="all" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <tgroup cols="2" colsep="0" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table">
               <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="70*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="30*" colsep="0"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Type
of Procurement Action:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Sealed Bidding</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Full and Open Competition</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Negotiated Under 10 U.S.C. 2304(b)( )</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Negotiated Under 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)( )</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">_____ Negotiated Under 40 U.S.C. 541
Brooks Act</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Negotiated Pursuant to Changes
Clause</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">_____ Claim Settlement</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Definitization of Letter Contract</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Final Price (Incentive, Redeterminable,
or EPA)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Type
of Clearance:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Pre-Negotiation</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Post Negotiation</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Letter
Contract</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Solicitation/Contract
Number:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Activity:</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2"/>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Contractor(s):</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Name:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">City/State:</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2"/>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Program:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Description of Supplies/Services:</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2"/>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Pricing
Structure: Proposal Pre-Negotiation Post-Negotiation</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Cost (Excluding COM)</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Cost of Money</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Total
Cost</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Fee/Profit ( %)</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Base Fee ( %)</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Award
Fee ( %)</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Total</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Ceiling
Price</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Sharing Arrangement:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Clearance Total:</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2"/>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Performance
Period:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Start Finish</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Or Deliveries:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">First
Final</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2"/>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Prepared
By:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Name:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Title:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Phone:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Date:</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2"/>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Recommendation:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">(Note: Per FAR 15.404-4(c)(4)(ii), the
Contracting Officer’s signature on the price negotiation memorandum
documents that the statutory price or fee limitations have not been
exceeded.)</p>
         <table frame="all" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <tgroup cols="1" colsep="0" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table">
               <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="100*" colsep="0"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Contracting Officer:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Signature: ____________________________</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Printed Name:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Phone:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Date</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Legal
Counsel (If applicable):</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Signature:
____________________________</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Printed
Name:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Phone:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Date:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Reviewer (If applicable):</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Signature: ____________________________</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Printed Name/Title:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Phone:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Date:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Approval (If other than Contracting Officer):</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Signature: ____________________________</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Printed Name/Title:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Phone:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Date:</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Unconditional Approval _____</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Not Approved _____</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Conditional Approval _____</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Conditions (If applicable):</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION II. KEY DOCUMENTS/EXHIBITS/ATTACHMENTS.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">A. Summary of Key Documents. Identify
and date each key document.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Acquisition Strategy/Plan</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Procurement Request:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Solicitation:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. Contractor(s)Proposal(s):</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. Proposal Evaluation Reports (as applicable)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">DCAA Report(s):</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">ACO Report(s):</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Technical Advisory Report:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Cost Advisory Report:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Past Performance Report</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Management Evaluation Report</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">6. Other documents as appropriate:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">B. Attachments. List in the order they
appear in the body of the clearance. Attachments may include the
following:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Source selection criteria with adjectival
ratings or weights (RFP Section L)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Evaluation Factors for Award (RFP Section
M)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Special Provisions</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. Summary matrix of competitive proposals</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. Non-price evaluation summaries with
scoring</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">6. Contract Facilities Capital Cost of
Money DD Form 1861</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">7. Weighted Guidelines DD Form 1547 (DFARS
PGI 215.404-70)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">8. Other documents as appropriate</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Section III: PRESOLICITATION INFORMATION.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">[Note: A business clearance documents
compliance with law, executive orders, regulations, and policy (FAR
1.602-2). It will become the record showing good business judgment
was exercised throughout the procurement process. The business clearance should
document the principal elements of a negotiated agreement for the
contract file (FAR 15.406-3).]</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">State the purpose of the business clearance
memorandum, such as a request to enter negotiations, a request for
Letter Contract approval, or a request for approval to award.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">A. Description of Supplies/Services. Include
quantities, delivery schedules, options, and any other information
to clearly explain what is included in the procurement. If appropriate,
a chart format or attachment could be used to provide detail.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">B. Background.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Procurement history.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. For weapons systems, describe previous
development phases.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Describe previous procurements for
the same supplies or services.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. Describe any consolidation or bundling.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">d. For a modification to an existing contract,
provide information on the existing contract’s procurement history.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">e. For service contracts, state whether
previous contracts were subject to Labor Standards Statute and/or
Construction Wage Rate Requirements Statute labor requirements.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">f. Provide other relevant historical information,
as needed.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Acquisition environment.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Explain whether this procurement is
sealed bid, negotiated, two step formal advertising, two-phase design/build
(FAR Subpart 36.3), or other.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Specify whether it is a sole source,
competitive, set-aside, definitization of a Letter Contract, change
order, etc.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. Discuss any limitations set on which
business concerns can propose or factors that might otherwise affect
the Government’s options to compete or negotiate the procurement.
Such limitations would include Brand Name or Equal procurements
(FAR 11.104), required sources of supplies/services (FAR Part 8),
or unsolicited proposals (FAR 15.6).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">d. Describe any Requests for Information
issued or Industry Days held as part of market research (FAR 10.002(b)(2))
and the industry response in terms of potential for competition.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">e. Determine if Theater Business Clearance
(TBC) requirements apply to the procurement as defined in 5201.690(f).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">C. Independent Government Estimate (IGE)
(FAR 36.203 for construction, FAR 36.605 for</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">architect-engineer). Address the matters
specified in USD(A&amp;S)/DPC’s September 17, 2007</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">memo titled “Contracting Practices – Independent
Government Estimates, Government Surveillance, and Contract Quality Assurance”
as follows:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Method used for IGE development.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Assumptions made.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Information estimating tools used.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. Source of information.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. Compare estimates for previous procurements
with the prices paid.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">D. Type of Contract.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Identify contract type and, for other
than firm fixed price contracts, summarize rationale for selection
(FAR 16.104) including consideration of technical, schedule, and
cost risks.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. For development contracts, address
compliance with approval requirements of DFARS 235.006.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. For incentive (FAR 16.4) or redeterminable
(FAR 16.205/206) contracts, discuss provisions of the pricing structure. Describe
Government defined share ratios, ceilings, economic price adjustments
(DFARS 216.203), and any other aspects of the pricing structure.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. For award fee contracts (FAR 16.404,
16.405-2, DFARS PGI 216.401(e)(i)), summarize the award fee plan
(or use attachments):</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Number and length of award fee periods
projected or milestones to be used, estimated percentage of costs
to be incurred during each period, and the projected percentage
of award fee available during each period;</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Contractor performance evaluation categories
and evaluation criteria (All CPAF contracts or contracts incorporating
award fee provisions should include a category on cost and criterion
for cost control.); and</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. Ratings for performance evaluation
criteria including definitions of ratings, scoring range, available
award fee pool for each rating and any weighting factors.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. Cite justification for use of options
in accordance with FAR 17.205.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">E. Source Selection Planning.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. For competitive acquisitions using
the source selection process:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Describe the source selection process,
such as a Best Value Continuum (FAR 15.101) or Lowest Price Technically
Acceptable (FAR 15.102).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Describe the source selection organization,
evaluation criteria, and basis for award as contained in the solicitation
(Attachments may be used).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. If an evaluation of the extent of participation
by small business is required by DFARS 215.304(c)(i), explain where
it is covered in the evaluation criteria.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. For construction procurements using
prequalification procedures, the clearance should address the factors
at DFARS 236.272 and the results of the pre-qualification process.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. For two-phase design-build solicitations,
the evaluation factors at FAR 36.303 should be addressed. For architect-engineer solicitations,
the requirements of FAR 36.602 should be addressed.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">F. Special Provisions. Discuss any special
provision not included in discussion under Type of Contract above,
such as the following:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Deviations from FAR, DFARS, NMCARS,
or other DOD or Departmental regulations (DFARS Subpart 1.4/NMCARS 5201.403).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Unusual controverted (disputed) cost
clauses/reopener clauses.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Design to Cost (FAR 7.105(a)(3)(i)).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. Organizational Conflicts of Interest
(FAR 9.504).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. Small business incentive (FAR 19.705-5(a)(4)
and DFARS 19.203).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">6. Wage determinations required by the
Labor Standards Statute (FAR 22.1003-1) or the Construction Wage
Rate Requirements Statute (FAR 22.402 and 22.403-1).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">7. Source Restrictions, such as Buy American
or 10 U.S.C 2533a or b (FAR Part 25/DFARS Part 225).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">8. Rights in technical data (FAR Part
27/DFARS Part 227).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">9. Unusual contract financing clauses,
i.e., milestone billings, advance payments etc. (FAR Part 32/DFARS
Part 232).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">10. Government Furnished Equipment/Material/Property
(FAR Part 45/DFARS Part 245).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">11. Special Tooling and Test Equipment
(FAR 45.306 &amp; 307)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">12. Warranty provisions to include cost
benefit analysis (DFARS 246.704) and approval.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">13. Security Classification (DD Form 254)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">G. Solicitation Review and Compliance.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Discuss whether the solicitation is
in agreement with the Acquisition Strategy and Acquisition Plan.
If not, discuss the differences and the circumstances which necessitated
the changes from the planning documents.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Discuss whether a legal review of the
solicitation was obtained prior to issuance.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">H. Synopsis. Give date of synopsis in
Governmentwide Point of Entry (GPE). If procurement was synopsized
in a location other than GPE, provide information.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION IV – PRE-SOLICITATION COMPLIANCES
(If approval/determination was included in another document, please
note):</p>
         <table frame="all" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <tgroup cols="3" colsep="0" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table">
               <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="9*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="62*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="29*" colsep="0"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Check
if N/A</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">DOCUMENT/APPROVAL
CHECKLIST</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Document
Number, Approving Official &amp; Date</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Acquisition
Strategy (FAR 34.004) or Management Oversight Process for Acquisition
of Services (NMCARS 5237.503)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Acquisition
Plan (DFARS 207.103)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Waiver
of Synopsis (FAR 5.202)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Determinations
and Findings (D&amp;F) to exclude a source (FAR 6.202)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Determination
and Findings (D&amp;F) for the Public Interest circumstances permitting
Other Than Full and Open Competition (FAR 6.3027)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Justification
for Other Than Full and Open Competition (FAR 6.303)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Bundling
contract requirements (FAR 7.107(c))</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Determination
to consolidate contract requirements (DFARS 207.170-3)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Determination
of Commercial Item for FAR Part 12 Over $1M (DFARS 212.102(a)(i)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Determination
to Use Commercial T&amp;M or LH contract (FAR 12.207)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Source
Selection Plan (DFARS 215.303)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Contract
type determination (FAR 16.102(d))</p>
                        <p outputclass="Normal">(See
FAR 16.601(d)(1) for Time &amp; Materials or Labor Hours)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Award
Fee Plan (FAR 16.405-2(b), PGI 216.405-2, PGI 216.470)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">HCA
Determination to Use CPAF (DPC memo April 24, 2007)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Use
of contract terms in excess of five years (FAR 17.204(e))</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Use
of non-DOD contract vehicle (NMCARS 5217.7802)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">DD
Form 2579 Small Business Coordination Record (DFARS 219.201)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Approval
for expedited completion date for MILCON (DFARS 236.270)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Authority
to Contract out for Personal Services (NMCARS 5237.104(b)(i))</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Determination
of Personal/NonPersonal Services (FAR 37.103)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Non-performance
based acquisition (DFARS 237.170-2)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Government-Furnished
Property Compliance Checklist (NMCARS 5245.103-73)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Approval
to use warranty (DFARS 246.704)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION V – SOLICITATION.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Discuss events during the solicitation
process.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">A. Pre-bid conferences (FAR 14.207), pre-solicitation
conferences (other than Industry Days described in Section III above), pre-construction
orientations, or other exchanges with industry before receipt of
proposal (FAR 15.201).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">B. How the solicitation was made available.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">C. Questions received and answered.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">D. Amendments issued and resultant changes
to acquisition planning.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">E. Protests before closing of the solicitation.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">F. Extent competition solicited and secured.
Include information on contractors expressing interest during the
solicitation period and offers received in response to the solicitation.
If any offerors not submitting a proposal gave an explanation for
their decision not to submit a proposal, summarize the explanation.
If only one offer was received, explain why the proposal will or will
not be considered competitive.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">G. Oral presentations (FAR 15.102). If
oral presentations were used, summarize the process including which
parts of the proposal were presented orally and participants. Content
of oral proposals should be included in sections on evaluation below.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">H. Summary table of proposals. Show a
summary table of offerors' prices and ratings/evaluation for each
factor required by the solicitation such as technical, past performance,
other non-cost factors, and cost. Attachment may be used.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION VI – PRE-NEGOTIATION ANALYSIS.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">[The business clearance should be a stand-alone
document which explains the offer(s) and the Government’s evaluation
of the offer(s). An understanding of the development of each position
is important to be adequately prepared for negotiations, to determine
a competitive range, or to decide to award without negotiations.
This section should be tailored to the specific solicitation’s procedures
for evaluation of cost/price and other non-cost factors included
in the solicitation.]</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Document the methodology used by the offeror(s)
in developing the proposal(s) both from cost and non-cost stand-points and
the methodology used by the Government in developing its negotiation
position(s). Include discussion of recommendations from field pricing/technical/audit
reviews, which recommendations were or were not used and why the
recommendations used were considered appropriate for use in developing
the Government’s independent pre-negotiation position(s).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Address each factor used for evaluation
as follows:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">A. Technical Evaluation (FAR 15.305(a)(3)).
For each subfactor under the technical factor, give the adjectival
ratings or raw scores for each offeror. Show the weighting or other
means of determining the overall score for the factor (15.305).
Discuss any clarifications obtained in the process of the evaluation
or other communications with offerors before establishment of the
competitive range (FAR 15.306). Summarize the technical weaknesses
and deficiencies of each offeror.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">B. Past Performance Evaluation (FAR 15.305(a)(2)).
For each subfactor under the past performance factor, give the adjectival ratings
or raw score for each offeror. Show the weighting or other means
of determining the overall score for the factor. Discuss any clarifications
obtained in the process of the evaluation or instances where an
offeror was given access to adverse past performance information
to which the offeror had not previously had an opportunity to respond
(FAR 15.306). Summarize weaknesses or deficiencies of each offeror.
This factor should include evaluation of past performance under
subcontracting plans if required by DFARS 215.305(a)(2).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">C. Other Non-Cost Factor Evaluation. For
each subfactor under any non-cost evaluation factor, give the adjectival
or raw score for each offeror. Show the weighting or other means
of determining an overall score for the factor. Discuss any clarifications
obtained in the process of the evaluation or other communications
with offerors before establishment of the competitive range (FAR
15.306). Summarize the weaknesses and deficiencies of each offeror.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">D. Cost/Price and Profit/Fee Analysis
(FAR 15.305(a)(1)). [Evaluation of proposals may be done through
cost analysis, price analysis, or a combination of the two techniques.
The necessity for a separate profit/fee analysis is dependent on
the extent of price analysis (FAR 15.404(c)(1) and DFARS 215.404(c)(1)).]</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Price analysis (FAR 15.404-1(b)).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Provide a summary comparison by line
item or cost element, as appropriate to the solicitation, for all
offerors and the Government’s position or IGE.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Document how the price was determined
to be fair and reasonable. If determining price reasonableness based
on adequate price competition, the clearance should address the
criteria of FAR 15.403-1(c)(1). If prices are set by law or regulation,
specify the basis for the price cited (FAR 15.403-1(c)(2). Price
reasonableness determinations based on comparison to historical
prices, catalogue prices, market prices, or other such benchmarks
should establish comparability of the supplies/services. The prices being
compared should be specified in the clearance or an attachment.
If catalogue prices are used for comparison, availability of such
prices to the public should be addressed.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Cost evaluation (FAR 15.404-1(c)).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">a. Provide a summary comparison for each
offeror in columnar format of (i) the offeror's proposal, (ii) the
audit recommendations (FAR 15.404-2(c)), if requested, (iii) the
field pricing recommendations (FAR 15.404-2(a)), if requested, and,
(iv) the prenegotiation position by elements of cost. [Elements
of cost may vary. The following is a notional format.]</p>
         <table frame="all" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <tgroup cols="5" colsep="0" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table">
               <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="23*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="18*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="18*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="18*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="5" colname="5" colwidth="24*" colsep="0"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">ELEMENT</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">PROPOSED</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">AUDIT</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">FIELD</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">PRE-NEG</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Material</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Material
O/H</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Labor</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Labor
O/H</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Subcontracts</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">ODCs</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">G&amp;A</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Subtotal</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">COM</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Fee/Profit</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">TOTAL</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="5">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Provide a narrative addressing the
individual elements of cost . Identify factors under major cost
elements to show how the prenegotiation position was developed.
Identify and detail areas of nonconcurrence with audit or field
recommendations and provide justification for the nonconcurrence.
Detail can be included as an attachment where necessary. If the
clearance is for definitization of a Letter Contract or existing
commitment, specifics on actual costs incurred should be included</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i). Material.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a). Summary of source and contractor's
estimates – firm purchase orders, quotes, competition, catalog items,
estimates, prior history.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b). Attrition/Scrap/Variance factors applied
to the net bill of material.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c). Make/Buy plans.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d). Summary of field sampling technique.
Dollar percentage of items reviewed to total dollar value of bill
of material.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e). Historical negotiation reduction factor
prime contractor experiences when converting vendor quotes to firm
purchase orders.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f). For high dollar value items, review
prime contractor negotiator's analysis. Discuss use of actual cost
data to develop negotiation positions. Utilize most recent historical
actual cost for analysis. Compare unit prices with historical prices.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g). Discuss findings of assist audits
and explain if any audit recommendations were not incorporated into
the Government position.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h). Identify the quantity and value of
recurring and nonrecurring material.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i). Discuss offeror's efforts to combine
common parts for this effort and other programs in-house. Identify
the percent of material under subject acquisition which is being
bought under corporate pricing agreements.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii). Material Overhead.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a). Summary of proposed rates and basis
for rates per year. If negotiated forward pricing rate agreement
(FPRA) exists, identify period covered by the agreement.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b). If no negotiated agreement exists,
state field recommended rates by year and reasons for variances
from proposed rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c). Discuss historical rate actuals. Discuss
whether actuals are tracking to the negotiated FPRAs. If actuals
are not tracking, discuss coordinated action with ACO.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d). Identify material base to which the
rate applies.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e). Summarize negotiator's analysis in
determining rates for the development of the preposition.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii). Direct Labor. [If appropriate, use
separate sections for types of labor such as engineering and manufacturing.]</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a). Summary of offeror's approach and
basis for estimate by individual labor category.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b). Discuss whether the offeror’s proposal
will comply with any wage determinations required.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c). Provide historical actual hours per
each labor category.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d). Identify recurring and nonrecurring
hours.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e). Identify hours which are quantity
related and which are time related.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f). Provide manloading charts, if applicable.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g). Summarize negotiator's approach to
developing preposition.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">· Learning curve with provide actual points,
midpoints, slope of regression and coefficient of determination
(R 2) of regression.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">· Level of effort over period of performance
(constant or variable).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">· Recurring and nonrecurring hours.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">· Time/quantity related nature of work
for manufacturing support.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">· Conversion factors for staffing level
(head count) to hours.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv). Labor Rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a). Summarize offeror's proposed rates
per year and basis for development. Compare to any applicable wage
determination if required by the Labor Standards Statute or Construction
Wage Rate Requirements Statute. If negotiated forward pricing agreement
(FAR 15.407-3) exists, identify period covered by the agreement.
Discuss effect of union agreement(s) or wage determination(s), if
applicable, on forward pricing rate established. Identify when Cost
of Living Adjustments (COLAS) or wage determination updates are
scheduled.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b). Address rates of increase for executive
compensation, salaries, wages and employee benefits as it applies
to the planned aggregate of all types of labor (both direct and
indirect) increases (e.g., Cost of Living Allowances, ingrade increases,
merit increases and performance bonuses) as well as to employee
fringe benefits (e.g., lower deductible for employee's share of
medical and dental insurance premiums, changes in employer's share
of salaried savings plans, increased vacation/sick leave/holiday).
Excluded are new hires, promotions and normal attrition.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c). If no negotiated forward pricing agreement
exists, discuss field recommended rates by year and reasons for
any variance from proposed rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d). Discuss historical actuals. If a negotiated
forward pricing agreement is in effect, discuss whether the actuals
are tracking to the negotiated rates. If actuals are not tracking
to the negotiated rates, input on use of negotiated rates should
be obtained from the ACO.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e). Summarize the negotiator's analysis
for determining rates used to develop the prenegotiation position.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v). Overhead Rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a). Summarize offeror's proposed rates
per year and basis for estimate. If negotiated forward pricing agreement
exists, identify period covered by the agreement.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b). If no negotiated agreement exists,
discuss field recommended rates by year and reasons for variances
from contractor proposed rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c). Discuss historical actuals using correlative
analysis of the base to experience rate. If a negotiated forward
pricing agreement is in effect, discuss whether the actuals are
tracking to the negotiated rates. If actuals are not tracking to
the negotiated rates, input on use of negotiated rates should be
obtained from the ACO.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d). Summarize the negotiator's analysis
for determining composite rates used to develop the prenegotiation
position.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e). Discuss any ceilings on rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f). Identify and discuss wage escalation
included in rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g). If the Labor Standards Statute and/or
Construction Wage Rate Requirements Statute is applicable, discuss
whether any portion of forward pricing rate agreement amounts or
other wage escalation included in overhead rates duplicates the “accompanying
costs” adjustment under the Acts.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vi). Subcontracts.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Summarize subcontracts included in
the proposal [unless included under earlier sections on material
or labor].</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Provide negotiator’s analysis of subcontracts
including information obtained from audit or field pricing.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Other Direct Charges.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a). Summarize offeror's proposed expenses
and basis for estimate.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b). Summarize field recommendations.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c). Negotiator's analysis supported by
actuals and historical data.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vii). G&amp;A.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a). Summarize offeror's proposed rates
per year and basis for estimate. If negotiated forward pricing agreement
exists, identify period covered by the agreement.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b). If no negotiated agreement exists,
discuss field recommended rates by year and reasons for variances
from contractor proposed rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c). Discuss historical actuals using correlative
analysis of the base to experience rate. If a negotiated forward
pricing agreement is in effect, discuss whether the actuals are
tracking to the negotiated rates. If actuals are not tracking to
the negotiated rates, input on use of negotiated rates should be
obtained from the ACO.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d). Summarize the negotiator's analysis
for determining composite rates used to develop the prenegotiation
position.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e). Discuss any ceilings on rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f). Identify and discuss wage escalation
included in rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g). If the Labor Standards Statute and/or
Construction Wage Rate Requirements Statute is applicable, discuss
whether any portion of forward pricing rate agreement amounts or
other wage escalation included in G&amp;A rates duplicates the “accompanying
costs” adjustment under the Acts.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ix). Cost of Money.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a). Summarize offeror's proposed facts
ear and basis for estimate. If negotiated forward pricing agreement
exists, identify period covered by the agreement.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b). If no negotiated agreement exists,
discuss field recommendation and reasons for any variances from
contractor proposed rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c). Discuss historical actuals. If a negotiated
forward pricing agreement is in effect, discuss whether the actuals
are tracking to the negotiated factors. If actuals are not tracking
to the negotiated rates, input on use of negotiated rates should
be obtained from the ACO.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d). Summarize the negotiator's analysis
for determining composite rates used to develop the prenegotiation
position.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e). Discuss any ceilings on rates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f). Attach DD Form 1861 for each offeror
in the competitive range.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Pre-Negotiation Profit/Fee Analysis.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a. Discuss each contractor's proposed
profit/fee rate.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b. Support prenegotiation profit/fee rate
with completed DD Form 1547 (DFARS 215.404-4(b)(1)) and discuss
use of each assigned weight or discuss applicable exemption.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c. Incentive/Award Fee Structure.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i). Share ratio under/over target and
rationale.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii). Min/max fee structure and rationale.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii). Point of Total Assumption (PTA)
analysis.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv). Ceiling.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v). Range of cost incentive effectiveness
(RIE) for CPIF.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION VII – OTHER PRE-NEGOTIATION INFORMATION.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">A. Comparison of preposition to historical
prices in constant and then year dollars, if not done as part of
cost or price analysis.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">B. If applicable, discuss exemptions requested
to Buy American, Berry Amendment, specialty metals restrictions,
or other requirements of the solicitation.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">C. If data for competitive reprocurement
is being purchased, discuss cost, delivery and whether the Government
will get unlimited rights.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">D. If applicable, discuss the requirement
of FAR 45.306 and 45.307 with regard to the acquisition of Special
Test Equipment and/or Special Tooling.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">E. If applicable, identify offerors and
attendees at prenegotiation and fact-finding sessions. Document
when sessions were held and what was included in discussions. Identify
any other exchanges with offerors after receipt of proposals. (FAR
15.306)</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">F. Not-to-exceed prices</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. For undefinitized contract actions
(UCAs), address compliance with the limitations set forth in DFARS
217.7404) and provide support for the not-to-exceed price.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. For BOA orders with a not-to-exceed
price, address compliance with the limitations set forth in DFARS
216.703 and provide support for the not-to-exceed price.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. For change orders with a not-to-exceed
price, address compliance with the limitations set forth in NMCARS
5243.201(91) and provide support for the not-to-exceed price.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION VIII - DECISION TO PROCEED.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Summarize the course of action decided
based on the information set forth in the business clearance to
this point.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">A. Competitive range (FAR 15.306(c)).
Include a determination and supporting discussion of offerors determined
to be within and outside the competitive range.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">B. Indicate whether discussions/negotiations
are necessary or why they will generate a better value to the Government.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">C. If award is to be made without discussions,
briefly discuss why (FAR 15.306(a)).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION IX – PRE-AWARD COMPLIANCES (If
competitive, document specific information for each offeror):</p>
         <table frame="all" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <tgroup cols="3" colsep="0" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table">
               <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="9*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="60*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="31*" colsep="0"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Check
if N/A</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">DOCUMENT/APPROVAL
CHECKLIST</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">DATE</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Review
of Online Representations &amp; Certifications Application (FAR 4.1201(c))</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Determination
of Responsibility (FAR 9.103) and financial stability (FAR 9.104-1(a)).</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">HCA
Waiver of Cost or Pricing Data (FAR 15.403-1)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Certificate
of Current Cost or Pricing Data (FAR 15.406-2)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Approved
Make or Buy Plan (FAR 15.407-2)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Contractor’s
Estimating System determined acceptable by ACO (DFARS 215.407-5)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">PreAward
Disclosure Statement Cost Accounting Practices and Certification
(FAR 15.408)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Contractor’s
Accounting System determined adequate by CAO/DCAA (FAR 16.301-3)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Determination
to make single award for IDIQ Advisory and Assistance Services over
3 years and $11.5M (FAR 16.504(c)(2)(A) or (B))</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Subcontracting
Plan determined adequate (FAR 19.705-4)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Approval
of SDB subcontracting goal less than 5% (DFARS 219.705-4)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">EEO
compliance requested/obtained (FAR 22.805).</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Disclosure
Statement determined current, accurate and complete by ACO (FAR
42.302(a)(11)).</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Contractor
EVMS verified compliant with DOD criteria by DCMA (DFARS 242.302(S-71)).</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Contractor
Purchasing System determined to be approved by the ACO (FAR 44.304)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Property
System reviewed for acceptability by ACO (FAR 45.105).</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Compliance
with DOD Instruction 7640.02</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">SECTION X – POST-NEGOTIATION</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">A. Update events since prenegotiation
clearance approved. Discuss when prenegotiation clearance was approved,
conditions of the approval, how these conditions were resolved and
where in the clearance these conditions are discussed.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">B. Negotiations. Discuss when negotiations
were conducted, with which contractor(s), and the participants.
Discuss requests for final proposal revisions (FAR 15.307).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">C. Elimination from Competitive Range.
Discuss Contracting Officer decision to no longer include contractor(s)
in the competitive range and issuance of written notices (FAR 15.306(c)(3)).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">D. Results of Negotiation</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Provide a summary comparison in columnar
format of the respective positions of contractor(s) proposal(s),
prenegotiation objective(s), and postnegotiation position(s), by
element of cost.</p>
         <table frame="all" colsep="0" rowsep="0">
            <tgroup cols="4" colsep="0" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table">
               <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="25*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="25*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="25*" colsep="0"/>
               <colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="25*" colsep="0"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">ELEMENT</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">PROPOSED</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">PRE-NEG</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">POST-NEG</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Material</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Material
O/H</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Labor</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Labor
O/H</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Subcontracts</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">ODCs</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">G&amp;A</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Subtotal</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">COM</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">Fee/Profit</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4" rowsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row rowsep="0">
                     <entry colname="1" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal">TOTAL</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="2" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="3" colsep="1">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                     <entry colname="4">
                        <p outputclass="Normal"/>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Discuss rationale for differences in
prenegotiation and postnegotiation positions.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Include any supplemental cost data
obtained, such as written documents or oral presentations of actual
cost data (material prices, labor hours, labor rates, overhead rates,
etc.).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. Include an evaluation of the supplemental
data and the degree to which it supports or justifies the prices
negotiated with the contractor.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. Include a discussion on the extent
to which the contracting officer relied on cost or pricing data
submitted and certified by the contractor. There must be sufficient
details included in the clearance to avoid difficulties in determining
what cost and pricing data were relied on should defective pricing
data be subsequently alleged (FAR 15.407-1).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">6. Address rationale for changes in special
provisions or new special provisions added during negotiations.
Attach clauses if different from those in the pre-negotiation clearance.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">7. If the Service Contract Act and/or
Davis-Bacon Act is applicable, discuss whether any wage determination
required updating prior to award. (FAR 22.1012 or FAR 22.404-6)
If so, discuss the impact.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">E. Competitive acquisitions.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Discuss source selection evaluation
factors and other considerations which support the award recommendation.
Discuss rationale for selection of source(s) including trade-offs
between price and non-price factors. If circumstances warrant, discuss financial
stability of contractor.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Discuss source selection decision (FAR
15.308). If the Business Clearance Memorandum will serve as the
sole record of the source selection decision, include language specifying
such a determination, such as “I, [Name], the Source Selection Authority
for this procurement, have independently reviewed all evaluations
and recommendations provided herein. As a result of such review,
I have determined [Contractor Name] to be the awardee.”</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">F. If pre-contract costs (FAR 31.205-32)
or any other form of advance agreement (FAR 31.109) has been or
will be authorized, discuss the justification for use, limitations
included, and approvals obtained.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">G. Other Information pertinent to the
clearance not previously addressed.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">H. Attachments, as needed or if updated
from Pre-Negotiation Clearance.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing
Data</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. DD Form 1547 and DD Form 1861.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Incentive share arrangements.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. Special clauses.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. Source Selection Decision Memorandum.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
