<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1049072" outputclass="1">
      <title outputclass="Heading1">ANNEX 13 – SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION
RESEARCH (SBIR) PHASE III JUSTIFICATION &amp; APPROVAL FOR USE OF
OTHER THAN FULL AND OPEN COMPETITION</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. Agency and Contracting Activity.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Department of the Navy, ___[insert name
of Contracting Activity]___</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Nature/Description of Action(s) Being
Approved.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">This is a justification to award a Small
Business Innovation Research (SBIR) (or Small Business Technology
Transfer (STTR)) Phase III contract to ___[insert name of contractor]___.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NOTE (delete after reading): The statement
below may need to be tailored to accurately communicate the sequence
of events. If the recipient of Phase I and Phase III are not the
same, then please explain.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">__[insert name of contractor] ___ was
awarded SBIR (or STTR) Phase I [contract number] on ___[insert effective
date of award]___, resulting from Solicitation ___[insert solicitation
number]___, [Topic/Topic number]. ___[insert name of contractor] ___was
subsequently awarded SBIR (or STTR) Phase II [contract number] on
___[insert effective date of award]___.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Description of Supplies/Services.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">__________________________________________________</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">__________________________________________________</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">[Briefly describe the supplies/services
required to meet the agency’s needs. State the estimated value,
inclusive of all options.]</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NOTE (delete after reading): This action
must clearly demonstrate that the Phase III work derives from, extends,
or completes efforts performed under Phase I and Phase II.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. Identification of Statutory Authority.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">10 U.S.C. 2304(c)(5), as implemented by
FAR 6.302-5: Authorized or Required by Statute.</p>
         <p id="i1049074" outputclass="Normal">15 U.S.C. 638(r)(1) states:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">“In the case of a small business concern
that is awarded a funding agreement for Phase II of an SBIR or STTR
program, a Federal agency may enter into a Phase III agreement with
that business concern for additional work to be performed during
or after the Phase II period. “</p>
         <p id="i1049076" outputclass="Normal">Furthermore, 15 U.S.C.
638(r)(4) states:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">“To the greatest extent practicable, Federal
agencies and Federal prime contractors shall issue Phase III awards
relating to technology, including sole source awards, to the SBIR
and STTR award recipients that developed the technology.”</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. Demonstration that Proposed Contractor’s
Unique Qualifications or Nature of Acquisition Requires Use of Authority Cited.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">The nature of the acquisition requires
the use of the authority cited. The SBIR/STTR Programs are structured
in three phases. Phase I (project feasibility) determines the scientific,
technical and commercial merit and feasibility of the ideas submitted.
Phase II (project development to prototype) is the major research
and development effort, funding the prototyping and demonstration of
the most promising Phase I projects. Phase III (commercialization)
is the ultimate goal of the SBIR/STTR Programs. Because the Phase
III work derives from, extends, or completes efforts performed under
Phase I and Phase II, use of the authority cited is required.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">6. Description of Efforts Made to Ensure
Offerors Were Solicited from as Many Potential Sources as Practicable/
Public Notification through Government Point of Entry (GPE).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">As described above, only ___[insert name
of contractor]___ is being considered for Phase III award due to
the nature of the acquisition. In accordance with FAR 5.202(a)(7),
this proposed contract action does not require public notification
to the GPE.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">7. Determination of Fair and Reasonable
Cost.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">The Contracting Officer will determine
prior to award that the negotiated price of the contract executed
under this justification is fair and reasonable pursuant to FAR
Subpart 15.4. This determination will be documented in ___[list
applicable location of the determination, e.g. Business Clearance
Memorandum]___, which will be included in the contract file.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">8. Description of Market Research or Statement
of the Reason Market Research was not Conducted.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">FAR 10.001(a)(2) indicates that market
research appropriate to the circumstances must be conducted. SBIR
Phase III procurements are such that traditional market research
to identify alternative sources is generally unnecessary. As described
above, the Phase III work derives from, extends, or completes efforts
performed under Phase I and Phase II.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NOTE (delete after reading): Notwithstanding
the statement above, market research may be performed if appropriate.
If any market research was performed, describe in this section.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">9. Any Other Supporting Facts.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Not applicable.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">10. Listing of Interested Sources.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Not applicable.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">11. Actions Taken to Remove Barriers to
Future Competition.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">The Contracting Officer anticipates that
competitors will enter the market once the product is commercialized.
It is likely that future acquisitions will be competed using full
and open competition and commercial item acquisition procedures.
The Contracting Officer is not aware of any specific actions that
would further remove barriers to competition.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">12. Period of Performance.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Base: ___[insert length of base period
of performance]___</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Option(s): ___[insert the length of any
option periods of performance (if any)]___.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">13. Total Estimated Dollar Value of the
Acquisition Covered by this J&amp;A, with Funding Specified by Year
and Appropriation.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">The total estimated value of this acquisition
is ___[insert total estimated value]___. ___[insert type of funding,
e.g. “RDT&amp;E”]___ funding is anticipated to be allocated as follows:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">___[insert anticipated allocation of funding
by year and appropriation]___.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">14. Actions Attempted to Make Immediate
Acquisition Competitive and Cost/Benefit Analysis</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">No actions were attempted to make the
immediate acquisition competitive; no cost/benefit analysis was
performed. As described above, only ___[insert name of contractor]___
is being considered for Phase III award due to the nature of the
acquisition.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NOTE (delete after reading): The following
section may need to be revised. This template assumes that the total
anticipated value of the action (base plus all options) is within
the thresholds described in FAR 6.304(a)(2). The appropriate approval
authorities for your action may be different than this template.
See FAR 6.304, DFARS 206.304, NMCARS 5206.304, and local procedures
for further guidance.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">TECHNICAL AND REQUIREMENTS CERTIFICATION
REQUIRED BY FAR 6.303-2(c):</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">I certify that the facts and representations
under my cognizance which are included in this Justification and
its supporting acquisition planning documents, except as noted herein
are complete and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">TECHNICAL COGNIZANCE:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NAME Code Phone Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">TITLE</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">REQUIREMENTS COGNIZANCE:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NAME Code Phone Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">TITLE</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">LEGAL SUFFICIENCY REVIEW:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">I have determined that this Justification
is legally sufficient.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NAME Code Phone Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">TITLE</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">CONTRACTING OFFICER'S CERTIFICATION REQUIRED
BY FAR 6.303-2(b)(12):</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">I certify that this Justification is accurate
and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NAME Code Phone Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">TITLE</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">COMPETITION ADVOCATE APPROVAL REQUIRED
BY FAR 6.304(a)(2):</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Upon the basis of the following justification,
I hereby approve, as Procuring Activity Competition Advocate for___[insert name
of Contracting Activity]___, the use of other than full and open
competition for the proposed procurement described herein, pursuant
to the authority of 10 U.S.C. 2304(c)(5).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">NAME Code Phone Date</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">TITLE</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">All questions regarding this justification
are to be referred to___[insert name of Contracts Specialist]___,
___[insert Command and Code]___, ___[insert telephone number]___,
_______[insert email address].</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
