<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="i1063844" outputclass="1">
      <title outputclass="Heading1">ANNEX 16 – STATEMENT OF WORK LANGUAGE
IMPLEMENTING “THE DIB” MEMO</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="Normal">The following SOW language shall
be used to supplement DFARS Clause 252.204-7012 entitled, “Safeguarding
Covered Defense Information and Cyber Incident Reporting” where
the Department of the Navy Program Manager, Program Executive Officer
or Chief of Naval Research, in coordination with Resource Sponsor,
determines that the risk to a critical program and/or technology
warrants its inclusion.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">1. System Security Plan and Plans of Action
and Milestones (SSP/POAM) Reviews</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a) Within thirty (30) days of contract
award, the Contractor shall make its System Security Plan(s) (SSP(s))
for its covered contractor information system(s) available for review
by the Government at the contractor’s facility. The SSP(s) shall
implement the security requirements in Defense Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement (DFARS) clause 252.204-7012, which is included
in this contract. The Contractor shall fully cooperate in the Government’s
review of the SSPs at the Contractor’s facility.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b) If the Government determines that the
SSP(s) does not adequately implement the requirements of DFARS clause
252.204-7012 then the Government shall notify the Contractor of
each identified deficiency. The Contractor shall correct any identified deficiencies
within thirty (30) days of notification by the Government. The contracting
officer may provide for a correction period longer than thirty (30)
days and, in such a case, may require the Contractor to submit a
plan of action and milestones (POAM) for the correction of the identified
deficiencies. The Contractor shall immediately notify the contracting
officer of any failure or anticipated failure to meet a milestone
in such a POAM.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c) Upon the conclusion of the correction
period, the Government may conduct a follow-on review of the SSP(s)
at the Contractor’s facilities. The Government may continue to conduct
follow-on reviews until the Government determines that the Contractor
has corrected all identified deficiencies in the SSP(s).</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">d) The Government may, in its sole discretion,
conduct subsequent reviews at the Contractor’s site to verify the
information in the SSP(s). The Government will conduct such reviews
at least every three (3) years (measured from the date of contract award)
and may conduct such reviews at any time upon thirty (30) days’
notice to the Contractor.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">2. Compliance to NIST 800-171</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a) The Contractor shall fully implement
the CUI Security Requirements (Requirements) and associated Relevant
Security Controls (Controls) in NIST Special Publication 800-171
(Rev. 1) (NIST SP 800-171), or establish a SSP(s) and POA&amp;Ms
that varies from NIST 800-171 only in accordance with DFARS clause
252.204-7012(b)(2), for all covered contractor information systems
affecting this contract.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b) Notwithstanding the allowance for such
variation, the contractor shall identify in any SSP and POA&amp;M
their plans to implement the following, at a minimum:</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Implement Control 3.5.3 (Multi-factor
authentication). This means that multi-factor authentication is
required for all users, privileged and unprivileged accounts that
log into a network. In other words, any system that is not standalone should
be required to utilize acceptable multi-factor authentication. For
legacy systems and systems that cannot support this requirement,
such as CNC equipment, etc., a combination of physical and logical
protections acceptable to the Government may be substituted;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Implement Control 3.1.5 (least privilege)
and associated Controls, and identify practices that the contractor
implements to restrict the unnecessary sharing with, or flow of,
covered defense information to its subcontractors, suppliers, or
vendors based on need-to-know principles;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Implement Control 3.1.12 (monitoring
and control remote access sessions) - Require monitoring and controlling
of remote access sessions and include mechanisms to audit the sessions
and methods.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Audit user privileges on at least an
annual basis;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Implement:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">i. Control 3.13.11 (FIPS 140-2 validated
cryptology or implementation of NSA or NIST approved algorithms
(i.e. FIPS 140-2 Annex A: AES or Triple DES) or compensating controls
as documented in a SSP and POAM); and,</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">ii. NIST Cryptographic Algorithm Validation
Program (CAVP) (see https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-algorithm-validation-program);</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Implement Control 3.13.16 (Protect
the confidentiality of CUI at rest) or provide a POAM for implementation
which shall be evaluated by the Navy for risk acceptance.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Implement Control 3.1.19 (encrypt CUI
on mobile devices) or provide a plan of action for implementation
which can be evaluated by the Government Program Manager for risk
to the program.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">3. Cyber Incident Response:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a) The Contractor shall, within fifteen
(15) days of discovering the cyber incident (inclusive of the 72-hour
reporting period), deliver all data used in performance of the contract
that the Contractor determines is impacted by the incident and begin
assessment of potential warfighter/program impact.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b) Incident data shall be delivered in
accordance with the Department of Defense Cyber Crimes Center (DC3)
Instructions for Submitting Media available at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/docs/Instructions_for_Submitting_Media.docx.
In delivery of the incident data, the Contractor shall, to the extent
practical, remove contractor-owned information from Government covered
defense information.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c) If the Contractor subsequently identifies
any such data not previously delivered to DC3, then the Contractor
shall immediately notify the contracting officer in writing and
shall deliver the incident data within ten (10) days of identification.
In such a case, the Contractor may request a delivery date later
than ten (10) days after identification. The contracting officer
will approve or disapprove the request after coordination with DC3.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal">4. Naval Criminal Investigative Service
(NCIS) Outreach</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">The Contractor shall engage with NCIS
industry outreach efforts and consider recommendations for hardening
of covered contractor information systems affecting DON programs
and technologies.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">5. NCIS/Industry Monitoring</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">a) In the event of a cyber incident or
at any time the Government has indication of a vulnerability or
potential vulnerability, the Contractor shall cooperate with the
Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS), which may include cooperation
related to: threat indicators; pre-determined incident information
derived from the Contractor's infrastructure systems; and the continuous
provision of all Contractor, subcontractor or vendor logs that show
network activity, including any additional logs the contractor,
subcontractor or vendor agrees to initiate as a result of the cyber
incident or notice of actual or potential vulnerability.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">b) If the Government determines that the
collection of all logs does not adequately protect its interests,
the Contractor and NCIS will work together to implement additional
measures, which may include allowing the installation of an appropriate
network device that is owned and maintained by NCIS, on the Contractor's
information systems or information technology assets. The specific
details (e.g., type of device, type of data gathered, monitoring
period) regarding the installation of an NCIS network device shall
be the subject of a separate agreement negotiated between NCIS and
the Contractor. In the alternative, the Contractor may install network
sensor capabilities or a network monitoring service, either of which
must be reviewed for acceptability by NCIS. Use of this alternative
approach shall also be the subject of a separate agreement negotiated
between NCIS and the Contractor.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">c) In all cases, the collection or provision
of data and any activities associated with this statement of work
shall be in accordance with federal, state, and non-US law.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         <p id="i1063848" outputclass="Normal"/>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
