<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="id206390T107Q" outputclass="4">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5204.7303-1 General.</title>
               <conbody>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) (S-90) As provided in the
memorandum titled, “Updated Implementation of the DIB Memo”</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">dated 06 September 2019, the DON recognizes
the ongoing efforts within the DOD to protect</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">controlled unclassified inform<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?>ation and
unclassified networks. In the interim, the contracting officer shall
-</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) Include the contents of Annex 16 in
the statements of work of solicitations, contracts and task or delivery
orders when notified by the DON Program Manager, Program Executive
Officer, or Chief of Naval Research, in <?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?>coordination with the Resource
Sponsor, that the risk to a critical program and/or technology warrants
its inclusion.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) Consider the DFARS Clause at 252.204-7012,
and to the extent its contents are included in statements of work
of solicita<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?>tions, contracts and task or delivery orders, the DIB
memo, and Annex 16, to be material requirements.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(c) Consider the right to reduce or suspend
progress payments for contractor noncompliance (see Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR) 32.503-6) or for nonconforming supplies or services
(see FAR 46.407).</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">i. When the contracting officer decides
to accept supplies or services with critical or major non-conformances
(e.g., failure to comply with a material requirement), the contracting
officer shall modify the contract to provide for<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?> an equitable price
reduction or other consideration.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">1. An amount approximating 5% of the contract’s
value could be considered reasonable based on the risk to the Government for
this noncompliance.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">2. In situations where an increased risk
is identified by the requirements office, the contracting officer
should consider an amount equal to this increased risk.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">ii. When the contracting officer decides
to require correction of nonconformance rather than acceptance,
withholding/reduction or suspension of progress payments should
be considered if correction is not<?FM MARKER [Hypertext] message URL mailto:RDAJ\&As@navy.mil?> effected in a timely manner.</p>
               </conbody>
            </concept>
</dita>
