<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3052_101_T48_7021551111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3052.101</ph> Using part 3052.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Numbering.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P" outputclass="Runin">(2)(i) Provisions or clauses that supplement the FAR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(A) Agency-prescribed provisions and clauses permitted by HSAR and used on a standard basis (i.e., normally used in two or more solicitations or contracts regardless of contract type) shall be prescribed and contained in the HSAR. Component desiring to use a provision or a clause on a standard basis shall submit a request containing a copy of the clause(s), justification for its use, and evidence of legal counsel review to the CPO in accordance with (HSAR) 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3001_304_T48_70282216"
                  href="Section_3001_304_T48_70282216.dita#Section_3001_304_T48_70282216">3001.304</xref> for possible inclusion in the HSAR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(B) Provisions and clauses used on a one-time basis (i.e., non-standard provisions and clauses) may be approved by the contracting officer, unless a higher level is designated by the Component. This authority is subject to:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(<i>1</i>) Evidence of legal counsel review in the contract file;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(<i>2</i>) Inserting these clauses in the appropriate sections of the uniform contract format; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(<i>3</i>) Ensuring the provisions and clauses do not deviate from the requirements of the FAR and HSAR.
</p>
                                    <p>
            <b>Note to <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="Section_3052_101_T48_7021551111"
                     href="Section_3052_101_T48_7021551111.dita#Section_3052_101_T48_7021551111">3052.101</xref>:</b>
         </p>
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">The solicitation provisions and contract clauses matrix referencing all HSAR provisions and clauses is available at <i>http://www.dhs.gov/xopnbiz/</i> under Policy and Regulations, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR).</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
