<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3052_217_92_T48_70215512122">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3052.217-92</ph> Inspection and manner of doing work (USCG).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in USCG guidance at (HSAR) 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3017_9000_T48_7021018311"
                  href="Section_3017_9000_T48_7021018311.dita#Section_3017_9000_T48_7021018311">3017.9000</xref>(a) and (b), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Inspection and Manner of Doing Work (DEC 2003)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor shall perform work in accordance with the contract, any drawings and specifications made a part of the job order, and any change or modification issued under the Changes clause.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this clause, and unless otherwise specifically provided in the contract, all operational practices of the Contractor and all workmanship, material, equipment, and articles used in the performance of work under this contract shall be in accordance with the best commercial marine practices and the rules and requirements of all appropriate regulatory bodies including, but not limited to the American Bureau of Shipping, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, in effect at the time of Contractor's submission of offer, and shall be intended and approved for marine use.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) When Navy specifications are specified in the contract, the Contractor shall follow Navy standards of material and workmanship.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Government may inspect and test all material and workmanship at any time during the Contractor's performance of the work.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) If, prior to delivery, the Government finds any material or workmanship is defective or not in accordance with the contract, in addition to its rights under the Guarantee clause, the Government may reject the defective or nonconforming material or workmanship and require the Contractor to correct or replace it at the Contractor's expense.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If the Contractor fails to proceed promptly with the replacement or correction of the material or workmanship, the Government may replace or correct the defective or nonconforming material or workmanship and charge the Contractor the excess costs incurred.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) As specified in the contract, the Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Contractor shall maintain complete records of all inspection work and shall make them available to the Government during performance of the contract and for 90 days after the completion of all work required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor shall not permit any welder to work on a vessel unless the welder is, at the time of the work, qualified to the standards established by the U.S. Coast Guard, American Bureau of Shipping, or Department of the Navy for the type of welding being performed. Qualifications of a welder shall be as specified in the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor shall - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Exercise reasonable care to protect the vessel from fire;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Maintain a reasonable system of inspection over activities taking place in the vicinity of the vessel's magazines, fuel oil tanks, or storerooms containing flammable materials.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Maintain a reasonable number of hose lines ready for immediate use on the vessel at all times while the vessel is berthed alongside the Contractor's pier or in dry dock or on a marine railway;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Unless otherwise provided in the contract, provide sufficient security patrols to reasonably maintain a fire watch for protection of the vessel when it is in the Contractor's custody;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) To the extent necessary, clean, wash, and steam out or otherwise make safe, all tanks under alteration or repair.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Furnish the Contracting Officer a “gas-free” or “safe-for-hotwork” certificate before any hot work is done on a tank;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) Treat the contents of any tank as Government property in accordance with the Government Property (Fixed-Price Contracts) clause; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(8) Dispose of the contents of any tank only at the direction, or with the concurrence, of the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(9) Be responsible for the proper closing of all openings to the vessel's underwater structure upon which work has been performed. The contractor additionally must advise the COTR of the status of all valves closures and openings for which the contractor's workers were responsible.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Except as otherwise provided in the contract, when the vessel is in the custody of the Contractor or in dry dock or on a marine railway and the temperature is expected to go as low as 35 Fahrenheit, the Contractor shall take all necessary steps to - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Keep all hose pipe lines, fixtures, traps, tanks, and other receptacles on the vessel from freezing; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Protect the stern tube and propeller hubs from frost damage.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The Contractor shall, whenever practicable - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Perform the required work in a manner that will not interfere with the berthing and messing of Government personnel attached to the vessel; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Provide Government personnel attached to the vessel access to the vessel at all times.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) Government personnel attached to the vessel shall not interfere with the Contractor's work or workers.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(i)(1) The Government does not guarantee the correctness of the dimensions, sizes, and shapes set forth in any contract, sketches, drawings, plans, or specifications prepared or furnished by the Government, unless the contract requires that the Contractor perform the work prior to any opportunity to inspect.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(2) Except as stated in paragraph (i)(1) of this clause, and other than those parts furnished by the Government, and the Contractor shall be responsible for the correctness of the dimensions, sizes, and shapes of parts furnished under this agreement.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(j) The Contractor shall at all times keep the site of the work on the vessel free from accumulation of waste material or rubbish caused by its employees or the work. At the completion of the work, unless the contract specifies otherwise, the Contractor shall remove all rubbish from the site of the work and leave the immediate vicinity of the work area “broom clean.”</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
