<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3001_301_T48_70282211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3001.301</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The HSAR is issued for Departmental guidance according to the policy cited in (FAR) 48 CFR 1.301. The HSAR establishes uniform Department of Homeland Security policies and procedures for all acquisition activities within the Department of Homeland Security. Component supplemental acquisition regulations to be inserted in the HSAR as a HSAR supplement regulation must be reviewed and approved by the Chief Procurement Officer (CPO) before the CPO authorizes and submits the proposed content for publication in the Federal Register under (FAR) 48 CFR part 1, subparts 1.3 and 1.5.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(2)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The CPO is authorized to issue internal agency guidance at any organizational level. Department-wide procedures are contained in the HSAM. The HCA may implement internal procedures or supplement the FAR, HSAR, or HSAM as provided in HSAM <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_3001_3_T48_702822"
                  href="Subpart_3001_3_T48_702822.dita#Subpart_3001_3_T48_702822">3001.3</xref>. The HCA may issue procedures or delegate this authority to any organizational level deemed appropriate. Component procedures may be more restrictive or require higher approval levels than those permitted by the HSAM, unless otherwise specified.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Individuals granted authority in the HSAR may delegate that authority, unless the FAR or HSAR specifically state that the authority is not delegable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Under Secretary of Management established procedures through Management Directive (MD) 0490.1, entitled <i>Federal Register Notice and Rules,</i> to ensure that agency acquisition regulations are published for comment in the Federal Register in conformance with FAR procedures at (FAR) 48 CFR subpart 1.5.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
