<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3052_217_100_T48_70215512130">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3052.217-100</ph> Guarantee (USCG).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in USCG guidance at (HSAR) 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_3017_9000_T48_7021018311"
                  href="Section_3017_9000_T48_7021018311.dita#Section_3017_9000_T48_7021018311">3017.9000</xref>(c), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Guarantee (USCG) (JUN 2006)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In the event any work performed or materials furnished by the contractor prove defective or deficient within 60 days from the date of redelivery of the vessel(s), the Contractor, as directed by the Contracting Officer and at its own expense, shall correct and repair the deficiency to the satisfaction of the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If the Contractor or any subcontractor has a guarantee for work performed or materials furnished that exceeds the 60 day period, the Government shall be entitled to rely upon the longer guarantee until its expiration.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) With respect to any individual work item identified as incomplete at the time of redelivery of the vessel(s), the guarantee period shall run from the date the item is completed.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If practicable, the Government shall give the Contractor an opportunity to correct the deficiency.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) If the Contracting Officer determines it is not practicable or is otherwise not advisable to return the vessel(s) to the Contractor, or the Contractor fails to proceed with the repairs promptly, the Contracting Officer may direct that the repairs be performed elsewhere, at the Contractor's expense.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If correction and repairs are performed by other than the Contractor, the Contracting Officer may discharge the Contractor's liability by making an equitable deduction in the price of the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor's liability shall extend for an additional 60-day guarantee period on those defects or deficiencies that the Contractor corrected.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) At the option of the Contracting officer, defects and deficiencies may be left uncorrected. In that event, the Contractor and Contracting Officer shall negotiate an equitable reduction in the contract price. Failure to agree upon an equitable reduction shall constitute a dispute under the Disputes clause of this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
