<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1052_219_72_T48_5043413115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1052.219-72</ph> Section 8(a) direct awards.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1019.811-3(f), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">8(a) Business Development Program Awards (JUN 2003)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This purchase/delivery/task order or contract is issued by the contracting activity directly to the 8(a) program participant/contractor pursuant to the Partnership Agreement between the Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Department of the Treasury. However, the Small Business Administration is the prime contractor and retains responsibility for 8(a) certification, 8(a) eligibility determinations and related issues, and provides counseling and assistance to the 8(a) contractor under the 8(a) Business Development program. The cognizant SBA district office is:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">[<i>To be completed by the contracting officer at the time of award</i>]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting officer is responsible for administering the purchase/delivery/task order or contract and taking any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the purchase/delivery/task order or contract, to include providing the cognizant SBA district office with a signed copy of the purchase/delivery/task order or contract award within 15 days of the award. However, the contracting officer shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating performance, either in whole or in part, under the purchase order or contract. The contracting officer shall also coordinate with SBA prior to processing any novation agreement. The contracting officer may assign contract administration functions to a contract administration office.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor agrees:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) to notify the contracting officer, simultaneously with its notification to SBA (as required by SBA's 8(a) regulations), when the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility is based, plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern. Consistent with 15 U.S.C. 637(a)(21), transfer of ownership or control shall result in termination of the contract for convenience, unless SBA waives the requirement for termination prior to the actual relinquishing of control; and,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) to adhere to the requirements of FAR 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
