<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1452_226_71_T48_5075847119">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1452.226-71</ph> Indian Preference Program.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1426.7003(b), insert the following clause in all solicitations and contracts awarded by the contracting activity that may exceed $50,000, contain the clause at 1452.226-70, and where it is determined by the Contracting Officer, prior to solicitation, that the work under the contract will be performed in whole or in part on or near an Indian reservation(s). The clause may also be included in solicitations issued and contracts awarded by a contracting activity not exceeding $50,000 that contain the clause at 1452.226-70 and which, in the opinion of the Contracting Officer, offer substantial opportunities for Indian employment, training, and subcontracting.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Indian Preference Program -  Department of the Interior (APR 1984)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In addition to the requirements of the clause of this contract entitled “Indian Preference - Department of the Interior,” the Contractor agrees to establish and conduct an Indian preference program which will expand the opportunities for Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises to receive a preference in the awarding of subcontracts and which will expand opportunities for Indians to receive preference for training and employment in connection with the work to be performed under this contract. In this connection, the Contractor shall  - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Designate a liaison officer who will:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Maintain liaison with the Government and Tribe(s) on Indian preference matters;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Supervise compliance with the provisions of this clause; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Administer the Contractor's Indian preference program.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Advise its recruitment sources in writing and include a statement in all advertisements for employment that Indian applicants will be given preference in employment and training incident to such employment.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Not less than twenty (20) calendar days prior to commencement of work under this contract, post a written notice in the Tribal office of any reservations on which or near where the work under this contract is to be performed, which sets forth the Contractor's employment needs and related training opportunities. The notice shall include the approximate number and types of employees needed, the approximate dates of employment; the experience or special skills required for employment, if any; training opportunities available; and all other pertinent information necessary to advise prospective employees of any other employment requirements. The Contractor shall also request the Tribe(s) on or near whose reservation(s) the work is to be performed to provide assistance to the Contractor in filling its employment needs and training opportunities. The Contracting Officer will advise the Contractor of the name, location, and phone number of the Tribal officials to contact in regard to the posting of notices and requests for Tribal assistance.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Establish and conduct a subcontracting program which gives preference to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises as subcontractors and suppliers under this contract. Consistent with the efficient performance of this contract, the Contractor shall give public notice of existing subcontracting opportunities by soliciting bids or proposals only from Indian organizations or Indian-owned economic enterprises. The Contractor shall request assistance and information on Indian firms qualified as suppliers or subcontractors from the Tribe(s) on or near whose reservation(s) the work under the contract is to be performed. The Contracting Officer will advise the Contractor of the name, location, and phone number of the Tribal officials to be contacted in regard to the request for assistance and information. Public notices and solicitations for existing subcontracting opportunities shall provide an equitable opportunity for Indian firms to submit bids or proposals by including - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) A clear description of the supplies or services required including quantities, specifications, and delivery schedules which facilitate the participation of Indian firms;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) A statement indicating the preference will be given to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises in accordance with Section 7(b) of Public Law 93-638; (88 Stat. 2205; 25 U.S.C. 450e(b));
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Definitions for the terms “Indian organization” and “Indian-owned economic enterprise” as prescribed under the “Indian Preference - Department of the Interior” clause of this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) A representation to be completed by the bidder or offeror that it is an Indian organization or Indian-owned economic enterprise; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) A closing date for receipt of bids or proposals which provides sufficient time for preparation and submission of a bid or proposal. If after soliciting bids from Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises, no responsible bid is received, the Contractor shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (d) of the “Indian Preference - Department of the Interior” clause of this contract. If one or more responsible bids are received, award shall be made to the low responsible bidder if the bid price is determined to be reasonable. If the low responsive bid is determined to be unreasonable as to price, the Contractor shall attempt to negotiate a reasonable price and award a subcontract. If a reasonable price cannot be agreed upon, the Contractor shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (d) of the “Indian Preference - Department of the Interior” clause of the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Maintain written records under this contract which indicate:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The names and addresses of all Indians seeking employment for each employment position available under this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The number and types of positions filled by Indians and non-Indians, and the name, address and position of each Indian employed under this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) For those positions where there are both Indian and non-Indian applicants, and a non-Indian is selected for employment, the reason(s) why the Indian applicant was not selected;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Actions taken to give preference to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises for subcontracting opportunities which exist under this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Reasons why preference was not given to Indian firms as subcontractors or suppliers for each requirement where it was determined by the Contractor that such preference would not be consistent with the efficient performance of the contract, and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vi) The names and addresses of all Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises contacted, and receiving subcontract awards under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) The Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer for approval a semiannual report which summarizes the Contractor's Indian preference program and indicates the number and types of available positions filled and dollar amounts of all subcontracts awarded to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises and all other firms.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) Records maintained pursuant to this clause will be kept available for review by the Government until expiration of one (1) year after final payment under this contract, or for such longer period as may be required by any other clause of this contract or by applicable law or regulation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) For purpose of this clause, the following definitions of terms shall apply:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The terms “Indian,” “Indian Tribe,” “Indian Organization, and “Indian-owned economic enterprise” are defined in the clause of this contract entitled “Indian Preference.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) “Indian reservation” includes Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, former Indian reservations on Oklahoma, and land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601 <i>et seq.</i>).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) “On or near an Indian Reservation” means on a reservation or reservations or within that area surrounding an Indian reservation(s) where a person seeking employment could reasonably be expected to commute to and from in the course of a work day.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Nothing in the requirements of this clause shall be interpreted to preclude Indian Tribes from independently developing and enforcing their own Indian preference requirements. Such requirements must not hinder the Government's right to award contracts and to administer their provisions.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor agrees to include the provisions of this clause including this paragraph (d) in each subcontract awarded under this contract and to notify the Contracting Officer of such subcontracts.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) In the event of noncompliance with this clause, the Contractor's right to proceed may be terminated in whole or in part by the Contracting Officer and the work completed in a manner determined by the Contracting Officer to be in the best interest of the Government.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
