<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1228_106_7100_T48_5053920116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1228.106-7100</ph> Waiver.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of Transportation by the Miller Act, the requirements of 40 U.S.C. 3131 <i>et seq.</i> are waived, to the extent authorized in 40 U.S.C. 3134(b), with respect to contracts for the construction, alteration, or repair of vessels when the contract is made under sections 1535 and 1536 of Title 31, the Merchant Marine Act 1936 (46 App. U.S.C. 1101 <i>et seq.</i>), or the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 App. U.S.C. 1735 <i>et seq.</i>), regardless of the terms of the contracts as to payment or title.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Miller Act's requirement that certain contracts have payment bonds in place in order to protect the public, including the Government, material, men and laborers is not generally necessary with respect to the classes of contracts described under (TAR) 48 CFR 1228.106-7100(a). Inasmuch as the Government would directly or indirectly bear the burden of premiums for performance and payment bonds obtained in connection with such contracts, a substantial savings can be made by waiving the requirement that they be obtained. However, unusual circumstances may arise in which either payment or performance bonds, or both, will be advantageous in connection with certain such contracts. 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
