<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1202_1_T48_505353111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1202.1</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Agency, Federal agency</i> or <i>Executive agency</i> means the Department of Transportation.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Chief Information Officer</i> means the Director of the Office of the Chief Information Officer (CIO) (S-80).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Chief of the Contracting Office</i> (COCO) means the individual(s) responsible for managing the contracting office(s) within an Operating Administration.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contracting activity</i> includes all the contracting offices within an Operating Administration and is the same as the term “procuring activity.”
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contracting officer</i> (CO) means an individual authorized by virtue of their position or by appointment to perform the functions assigned by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), the Transportation Acquisition Regulation (TAR) and Transportation Acquisition Manual (TAM).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Department of Transportation</i> means all of the Operating Administrations included within the Department of Transportation (DOT).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Head of the agency</i> or <i>agency head</i> for Departmental procurement means the Deputy Secretary except for acquisition actions that, by the terms of a statute or delegation, must be done specifically by the Secretary of Transportation.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA)</i> means the individual responsible for managing the contracting offices within an Operating Administration who is a member of the Senior Executive Service or a flag officer and is the same as the term “Head of the Procuring Activity.”
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Head of the Operating Administration (HOA)</i> means the individual appointed by the President to manage the operating administration.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Operating Administration (OA)</i> means the following components of DOT:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Federal Aviation Administration (FAA); (FAA is exempt from FAR, TAR and TAM pursuant to the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996, Public Law 104-50;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) Federal Highway Administration (FHWA);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(4) Federal Railroad Administration (FRA);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(5) Federal Transit Administration (FTA);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(6) Maritime Administration (MARAD);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(7) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(8) Office of the Secretary of Transportation (OST);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(9) Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(10) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology (OST-R).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(11) Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation (SLSDC).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Senior Procurement Executive (SPE)</i> means the Director of the Office of the Senior Procurement Executive (M-60).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Small Business Specialist (SBS)</i> means the individual appointed by each HCA to assist the Director, Office of the Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization in carrying out the purpose of the Small Business Act. 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
