<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1252_237_70_T48_50542332133">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1252.237-70</ph> Qualifications of contractor employees.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in (TAR) 48 CFR 1237.110(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Qualifications of Contractor Employees (APR 2005)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">a. Definitions. As used in this clause - “Sensitive Information” is any information that, if subject to unauthorized access, modification, loss, or misuse, or is proprietary data, could adversely affect the national interest, the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy of individuals specified in The Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, but has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">b. Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information which shall not be disclosed by the contractor unless authorized in writing by the contracting officer. To protect sensitive information, the contractor shall provide training to any contractor employees authorized to access sensitive information, and upon request of the Government, provide information as to an individual's suitability to have authorization.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">c. The Contracting Officer may require dismissal from work those employees deemed incompetent, careless, insubordinate, unsuitable, or otherwise objectionable, or whose continued employment is deemed contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the best interest of national security.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">d. Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms, as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the conduct of background investigations to determine suitability. Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer. Upon the Contracting Officer's request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted, or subject to other investigations as required.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">e. The Contractor shall ensure that contractor employees are:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Citizens of the United States of America or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence or employment (indicated by immigration status) as evidenced Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services documentation; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) Have background investigations according to DOT Order 1630.2B, Personnel Security Management.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">f. The Contractor shall immediately notify the contracting officer when an employee no longer requires access to DOT computer systems due to transfer, completion of a project retirement or termination of employment.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">g. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts at any tier where the subcontractor may have access to Government facilities, sensitive information, or resources.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
