<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2811_603_T48_60116111211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2811.603</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The PE is the agency official delegated authority to exercise priority authority on behalf of the Department. Any request for a priority rating on a contract or order must be submitted to PPRG, JMD, in accordance with the procedures in this subpart.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The requesting activity shall submit, to the PE, a description of the supplies or services requiring a priority rating and a complete justification for the necessity of a rated order including the method and type of contract and the anticipated award date. The justification must also state the level of priority rating requested and comply with the requirements of the Defense Priorities and Allocations System.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Upon receipt, the PPRG shall review the request for completeness and establish appropriate liaison with the Department of Commerce (DOC), the administering agency. Depending on the nature of the requirement, the PPRG may schedule a meeting with DOC officials to present the proposal. In such cases, a representative from the requiring activity may be requested to attend.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) DOJ activities requesting rated orders that concern classified material shall call PPRG before submitting their request to ensure appropriate transmission and handling between the requesting activity and PPRG.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
