<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2852_211_70_T48_60116733212">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2852.211-70</ph> Brand-name or equal.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2811_104_70_T48_60116111112"
                  href="Section_2811_104_70_T48_60116111112.dita#Section_2811_104_70_T48_60116111112">2811.104-70</xref>, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Brand-Name or Equal (JAN 1985)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The terms “bid” and “bidders”, as used in this clause, include the terms “proposal” and “offerors”. The terms “invitation for bids” and “invitational”, as used in their clause include the terms “request for proposal” and “request”.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If items called for by this invitation for bids have been identified in the schedule by a “brand name or equal” description, such identification is intended to be descriptive but not restrictive, and is to indicate the quality and characteristics of products that will be satisfactory. Bids offering “equal” products (including products of a brand name manufacturer other than the one described by brand name) will be considered for award if such products are clearly identified in the bids and are determined by the Government to meet fully the salient characteristics and requirements listed in the invitation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Unless the bidder clearly indicates in his/her bid that he/she is offering an “equal” product, his/her bid shall be considered as offering the brand name product referenced in the invitation for bids.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			If the bidder proposes to furnish an “equal” product, the branch name, if any, of the product to be furnished shall be inserted in the space provided in the invitation for bids, or such product shall be otherwise clearly identified in the bid. The evaluation of bids and the determinations to equality of the product offered shall be the responsibility of the Government and will be based on information furnished by the bidder or identified in his/her bid as well as other information reasonably available to the purchasing activity. To ensure the sufficient information is available, the bidder must furnish as a part of his/her bid all description material (such as cuts, illustrations, drawings, or other information) necessary for the purchasing activity to: (i) determine whether the product offered meets the salient characteristics requirements of the invitation for bids, and (ii) established exactly what the bidder proposed to furnish and what the Government would be binding itself to purchase by making an award. The information furnished may include specific references to information previously furnished or information otherwise available to the purchasing activity.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If the bidder proposes to modify a product so as to make it conform to the requirements of the invitation for bids, he/she shall: 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			include in his/her bid a clear description of such proposed modification, and (ii) clearly mark any description material to show the proposed modifications.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Modifications proposed after the bid opening to make a product conform to a brand name product referenced in the invitation for bids will not be considered.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
