<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2801_7001_702_T48_6011602612">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2801.7001-702</ph> Selection, appointment, and limitation of authority.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>COTR standards program.</i> This subpart sets forth policies and procedures for establishing standards for COTR's in DOJ. The program sets forth minimum standards for individuals to be eligible for an appointment as a COTR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Applicability.</i> The eligibility requirements of this subpart apply to all individuals who are designated by the contracting officer as COTR's.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Eligibility standards.</i> To be determined eligible for an appointment as a DOJ COTR, the following standards must be met:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The candidate must attend and successfully complete a minimum of a 16-hour basic COTR course; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The candidate must attend a minimum of 1 hour training specifically in procurement ethics, either through courses offered periodically by the Department, the bureaus, or a Government or commercial vendor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Limitations.</i> Each COTR appointment made by the contracting officer shall clearly state that the representative is not an authorized contracting officer and does not have the authority under any circumstances to:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Award, agree to award, or execute any contract, contract modification, notice of intent, or other form of binding agreement;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Obligate, in any manner, the payment of money by the Government;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Make a final decision on any contract matter which is subject to the clause at FAR 52.233-1, Disputes; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Terminate, suspend, or otherwise interfere with the contractor's right to proceed, or direct any changes in the contractor's performance that are inconsistent with or materially change the contract specifications.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Termination.</i> Termination of the COTR's appointment shall be made in writing by the contracting officer and shall give the effective date of the termination. The contracting officer shall promptly modify the contract once a COTR termination notice has been issued. A termination notice is not required when the COTR's appointment terminates upon expiration of the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Waivers.</i> No individual may serve as a COTR on any contract without the requisite training and signed COTR certificate for the file. In the rare event that there is an urgent requirement for a specific individual to serve as a COTR and the individual has not successfully completed the required training, the BPC may waive the training requirements and authorize the individual to perform the COTR duties, for a period of time not to exceed 120 days. The waiver will be granted in accordance with bureau procedures.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>COTR clause.</i> The clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2852_201_70_T48_60116733211"
                  href="Section_2852_201_70_T48_60116733211.dita#Section_2852_201_70_T48_60116733211">2852.201-70</xref> is required in all contracts where a COTR is designated.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
