<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2852_233_70_T48_60116733214">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2852.233-70</ph> Protests filed directly with the Department of Justice.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2833_102_T48_60116428112"
                  href="Section_2833_102_T48_60116428112.dita#Section_2833_102_T48_60116428112">2833.102</xref>(d), insert a clause substantially as follows:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Protests Filed Directly With the Department of Justice (JAN 1998)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following definitions apply in this provision:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) “Agency Protest Official” means the official, other than the contracting officer, designated to review and decide procurement protests filed with a contracting activity of the Department of Justice.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) “Deciding Official” means the person chosen by the protestor to decide the agency protest; it may be either the Contracting Officer or the Agency Protest Official.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) “Interested Party” means an actual or prospective offeror whose direct economic interest would be affected by the award of a contract or by the failure to award a contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) A protest filed directly with the Department of Justice must:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Indicate that it is a protest to the agency.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Be filed with the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) State whether the protestor chooses to have the Contracting Officer or the Agency Protest Official decide the protest. If the protestor is silent on this matter, the Contracting Officer will decide the protest.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Indicate whether the protestor prefers to make an oral or written presentation of arguments in support of the protest to the deciding official.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Include the information required by FAR 33.103(a)(2):
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Name, address, facsimile number and telephone number of the protestor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Solicitation or contract number.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Detailed statement of the legal and factual grounds for the protest, to include a description of resulting prejudice to the protestor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Copies of relevant documents.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Request for a ruling by the agency.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Statement as to the form of relief requested.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vii) All information establishing that the protestor is an interested party for the purpose of filing a protest.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(viii) All information establishing the timeliness of this protest.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) An interested party filing a protest with the Department of Justice has the choice of requesting either that the Contracting Officer or the Agency Protest Official decide the protest.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The decision by the Agency Protest Official is an alternative to a decision by the Contracting Officer. The Agency Protest Official will not consider appeals from the Contracting Officer's decision on an agency protest.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The deciding official must conduct a scheduling conference with the protestor within five (5) days after the protest is filed. The scheduling conference will establish deadlines for oral or written arguments in support of the agency protest and for many officials to present information in response to the protest issues. The deciding official may hear oral arguments in support of the agency protest at the same time as the scheduling conference, depending on availability of the necessary parties.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Oral conferences may take place either by telephone or in person. Other parties may attend at the discretion of the deciding official.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The protestor has only one opportunity to support or explain the substance of its protest. Department of Justice procedures do not provide for any discovery. The deciding official may request additional information from either the agency or the protestor. The deciding official will resolve the protest through informal presentations or meetings to the maximum extent practicable.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) An interested party may rerpresent itself or be represented by legal counsel. The Department of Justice will not reimburse the protester for any legal fees related to the agency protest.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) The Department of Justice will stay award or suspend contract Performance in accordance with FAR 33.103(f). The stay or suspension unless over-ridden, remains in effect until the protest is decided, dismissed, or withdrawn.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(j) The deciding official will make a best effort to issue a decision on the protest within twenty (20) days after the filing date. The decision may be oral or written.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(k) The Department of Justice may dismiss or stay proceeding on an agency protest if a protest on the same or similar basis is filed with a protest forum outside the Department of Justice.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
