<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_719_273_3_T48_501416214">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">719.273-3</ph> Incentives for prime contractor participation.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Under the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(E), USAID is authorized to provide appropriate incentives to encourage subcontracting opportunities for small business consistent with the efficient and economical performance of the contract. This authority is limited to negotiated procurements. (48 CFR) FAR 19.202-1 provides additional guidance.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Costs incurred by a Mentor to provide developmental assistance, as described in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_273_8_T48_501416219"
                  href="Section_719_273_8_T48_501416219.dita#Section_719_273_8_T48_501416219">719.273-8</xref> to fulfill the terms of their agreement(s) with a Protégé firm(s), are not reimbursable as a direct cost under a USAID contract. If USAID is the mentor's responsible audit agency under (48 CFR) FAR 42.703-1, USAID will consider these costs in determining indirect cost rates. If USAID is not the responsible audit agency, mentors are encouraged to enter into an advance agreement with their responsible audit agency on the treatment of such costs when determining indirect cost rates.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) In addition to subparagraph (b) above, contracting officers may give Mentors evaluation credit under (48 CFR) FAR 15.101-1 considerations for subcontracts awarded pursuant to their Mentor-Protégé Agreements and their subcontracting plans. Therefore:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Contracting officers may evaluate subcontracting plans containing Mentor-Protégé arrangements more favorably than subcontracting plans without Mentor-Protégé Agreements.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contracting officers may assess the prime contractor's compliance with the subcontracting plans submitted in previous contracts as a factor in evaluating past performance under (48 CFR) FAR 15.305(a)(2)(v) and determining contractor responsibility (48 CFR) 19.705-5(a)(1).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) OSDBU Mentoring Award. A non-monetary award will be presented annually to the Mentoring firm providing the most effective developmental support of a Protégé. The Mentor-Protégé Program Manager will recommend an award winner to the Director of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) OSDBU Mentor-Protégé Annual Conference. At the conclusion of each year in the Mentor-Protégé Program, Mentor firms will be invited to brief contracting officers, program leaders, office directors and other guests on Program progress.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
