<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7013_T48_5018363114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7013</ph> Contractor-mission relationships.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">For use in all USAID contracts involving performance overseas. Note that paragraph (f) of this clause is applicable only in contracts with an educational institution.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Contractor-Mission Relationships (OCT 1989)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor acknowledges that this contract is an important part of the United States Foreign Assistance Program and agrees that its operations and those of its employees in the Cooperating Country will be carried out in such a manner as to be fully commensurate with the responsibility which this entails.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Mission Director is the chief representative of USAID in the Cooperating Country. In this capacity, he/she is responsible for both the total USAID program in the cooperating country including certain administrative responsibilities set forth in this contract, and for advising USAID regarding the performance of the work under the contract and its effect on the United States Foreign Assistance Program. Although the Contractor will be responsible for all professional, technical, and administrative details of the work called for by the contract, it shall be under the guidance of the Mission Director in matters relating to foreign policy. The Chief of Party shall keep the Mission Director currently informed of the progress of the work under the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) In the event the conduct of any Contractor employee is not in accordance with the preceding paragraphs, the Contractor's Chief of Party shall consult with the Mission Director and the employee involved and shall recommend to the Contractor a course of action with regard to such employee.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The parties recognize the right of the U.S. Ambassador to direct the removal from a country of any U.S. citizen or the discharge from this contract of any third-country national or cooperating-country national when, at the discretion of the Ambassador, the interests of the United States so require. Under these circumstances termination of an employee and replacement by an acceptable substitute shall be at no cost to USAID.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) If it is determined that the services of such employee shall be terminated, the Contractor shall use its best efforts to cause the return of such employee to the United States or point of origin as appropriate.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">[The following paragraph (f) is applicable if the contract is with an educational institution:]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) It is understood by the parties that the Contractor's responsibilities shall not be restrictive of academic freedom. Notwithstanding these academic freedoms, the Contractor's employees, while in the Cooperating Country, are expected to show respect for its conventions, customs, and institutions, to abide by applicable laws and regulations, and not to interfere in its internal political affairs.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
