<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_742_1170_4_T48_501730215">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">742.1170-4</ph> Progress reporting requirements and contract clause.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) When the requiring office needs information on contract performance status on a regular basis, the contracting officer may require the contractor to submit periodic progress reports, tailored to address specific contract requirements but limited to only that information essential to USAID's needs in monitoring the contractor's progress.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Because the contracting officer's representative is the individual most familiar with the contractor's performance, the contractor must submit the progress reports directly to the cognizant technical officer. The contracting officer's representative must review the reports and advise the contracting officer, in writing, of any recommended action, including any action needed to address potential or actual delays in performance. The contracting officer's representative must so advise the contracting officer in sufficient time, typically thirty days, for him or her to take any action that the contracting officer determines is appropriate. The requirements of this paragraph do not relieve the contractor of notification requirements identified elsewhere in the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contracting officer must insert the clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_752_242_70_T48_5018362131"
                  href="Section_752_242_70_T48_5018362131.dita#Section_752_242_70_T48_5018362131">752.242-70</xref>, Periodic Progress Reports, in solicitations and contracts that require progress reporting, as specified in this section. The contracting officer must include specific reporting instructions in the Schedule.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
