<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7002_T48_501836313">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7002</ph> Travel and transportation.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">For use in cost reimbursement contracts performed in whole or in part overseas.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Travel and Transportation (JAN 1990)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> The Contractor will be reimbursed for reasonable, allocable and allowable travel and transportation expenses incurred under and for the performance of this contract. Determination of reasonableness, allocability and allowability will be made by the contracting officer based on the applicable cost principles, the Contractor's established policies and procedures, USAID's established policies and procedures for USAID direct-hire employees, and the particular needs of the project being implemented by this contract. The following paragraphs provide specific guidance and limitations on particular items of cost.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>International travel.</i> For travel to and from post of assignment the Contractor shall be reimbursed for travel costs and travel allowances of travelers from place of residence in the United States (or other location provided that the cost of such travel does not exceed the cost of the travel from the employee's residence in the United States) to the post of duty in the Cooperating Country and return to place of residence in the United States (or other location provided that the cost of such travel does not exceed the cost of travel from the post of duty in the Cooperating Country to the employee's residence) upon completion of services by the individual. Reimbursement for travel will be in accordance with the applicable cost principles and the provisions of this contract, and will be limited to the cost of travel by the most direct and expeditious route. If a regular employee does not complete one full year at post of duty (except for reasons beyond his/her control), the costs of going to and from the post of duty for that employee and his/her dependents are not reimbursable hereunder. If the employee serves more than one year but less than the required service in the Cooperating Country (except for reasons beyond his/her control) the costs of going to the post of duty are reimbursable hereunder but the costs of going from post of duty to the employee's permanent, legal place of residence at the time he or she was employed for work under this contract or other location as approved by the contracting officer are not reimbursable under this contract for the employee and his/her dependents. When travel is by economy class accommodations, the Contractor will be reimbursed for the cost of transporting up to 10 kilograms/22 pounds of accompanied personal baggage per traveler in addition to that regularly allowed with the economy ticket provided that the total number of kilograms/pounds of baggage does not exceed that regularly allowed for first class travelers. Travel allowances for travelers must not be in excess of the rates authorized in the Department of State Standardized Regulations - hereinafter referred to as the Standardized Regulations - as from time to time amended, for not more than the travel time required by scheduled commercial air carrier using the most expeditious route. One stopover en route for a period of not to exceed 24 hours is allowable when the traveler uses economy class accommodations for a trip of 14 hours or more of scheduled duration. Such stopover shall not be authorized when travel is by indirect route or is delayed for the convenience of the traveler. Per diem during such stopover shall be paid in accordance with the established practice of the Contractor but not to exceed the amounts stated in the Standardized Regulations.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Local travel.</i> Reimbursement for local travel in connection with duties directly referable to the contract shall not be in excess of the rates established by the Mission Director for the travel costs of travelers in the Cooperating Country. In the absence of such established rates the Contractor shall be reimbursed for actual travel costs of travelers in the Cooperating Country, if not provided by the Cooperating Government or the Mission, including travel allowances at rates not in excess of those prescribed by the Standardized Regulations.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Travel for consultation.</i> The Contractor shall be reimbursed for the round trip of the Contractor's Chief of Party in the Cooperating Country or other designated Contractor employee or consultant in the Cooperating Country performing services required under this Contract, for travel from the Cooperating Country to the Contractor's office in the United States or to USAID/Washington for consultation and return on occasions deemed necessary by the Contractor and approved in advance, in writing, by the contracting officer or the Mission Director.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Special international travel and third country travel.</i> For special travel which advances the purpose of the contract, which is not otherwise provided by the Cooperating Government, and with the prior written approval of the contracting officer or the Mission Director, the Contractor shall be reimbursed for - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The travel cost of travelers other than between the United States and the Cooperating Country and for local travel within other countries and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Travel allowance for travelers while in travel status and while performing services hereunder in such other countries at rates not in excess of those prescribed by the Standardized Regulations.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Indirect travel for personal convenience.</i> When travel is performed by an indirect route for the personal convenience of the traveler, the allowable costs of such travel will be computed on the basis of the cost of allowable air fare via the direct usually traveled route. If such costs include fares for air or ocean travel by foreign flag carriers, approval for indirect travel by such foreign flag carriers must be obtained from the contracting officer or the Mission Director before such travel is undertaken, otherwise only that portion of travel accomplished by United States-flag carriers will be reimbursable within the above limitation of allowable costs.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Limitation on travel by dependents.</i> Travel costs and allowances will be allowed only for dependents of regular employees and such costs shall be reimbursed for travel from place of abode to assigned station in the Cooperating Country and return, only if dependent remains in the country for at least 9 months or one-half of the required tour of duty of the regular employee responsible for such dependent, whichever is greater. If the dependent is eligible for educational travel pursuant to the “Differential and Allowances” clause of this contract, time spent away from post resulting from educational travel will be counted as time at post.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Delays en route.</i> The Contractor may grant to travelers under this contract reasonable delays en route while in travel status when such delays are caused by events beyond the control of such traveler or Contractor. It is understood that if delay is caused by physical incapacitation, personnel shall be eligible for such sick leave as provided under the “Leave and Holidays” clause of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>Travel by privately owned automobile.</i> The Contractor shall be reimbursed for the cost of travel performed by a regular employee in his/her privately owned automobile at a rate not to exceed that authorized in the Federal Travel Regulations plus authorized per diem for the employee and for each of the authorized dependents traveling in the automobile, if the automobile is being driven to or from the Cooperating Country as authorized under the contract, provided that the total cost of the mileage and the per diem paid to all authorized travelers shall not exceed the total constructive cost of fare and normal per diem by all authorized travelers by surface common carrier or authorized air fare, whichever is less.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(j) <i>Emergency and irregular travel and transportation.</i> Emergency transportation costs and travel allowances while en route, as provided in this section will also be reimbursed not to exceed amounts authorized by the Foreign Service Travel Regulations for USAID-direct hire employees in like circumstances under the following conditions:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The costs of going from post of duty in the Cooperating Country to the employee's permanent, legal place of residence at the time he or she was employed for work under this contract or other location for Contractor employees and dependents and returning to the post of duty, when the Contractor's Chief of Party, with the concurrence of the Contracting Officer or Mission Director makes a written determination that such travel is necessary for one of the reasons specified in subparagraphs (j)(1) 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			and (ii) of this section. A copy of the written determination shall be furnished to the contracting officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Need for medical care beyond that available within the area to which the employee is assigned, or serious effect on physical or mental health if residence is continued at assigned post of duty, subject in either case, to the limitations stated in the clause of this contract entitled “Personnel - Physical Fitness of Employee and Dependents.” The Mission Director may authorize a medical attendant to accompany the employee at contract expense if, based on medical opinion, such an attendant is necessary.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Death, or serious illness or injury of a member of the immediate family of the employee or the immediate family of the employee's spouse.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) When, for any reason, the Mission Director determines it is necessary to evacuate the Contractor's entire team (employees and dependents) or Contractor dependents only, the Contractor will be reimbursed for travel and transportation expenses and travel allowance while en route, for the cost of the individuals going from post of duty in the Cooperating Country to the employee's permanent, legal place of residence at the time he or she was employed for work under this contract or other approved location. The return of such employees and dependents may also be authorized by the Mission Director when, in his/her discretion, he/she determines it is prudent to do so.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Mission Director may also authorize emergency or irregular travel and transportation in other situations, when in his/her opinion, the circumstances warrant such action. The authorization shall include the kind of leave to be used and appropriate restrictions as to time away from post, transportation of personal and/or household effects, etc. Requests for such emergency travel shall be submitted through the Contractor's Chief of Party.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(k) <i>Home leave travel.</i> To the extent that home leave has been authorized as provided in the “Leave and Holidays” clause of this contract, the cost of travel for home leave is reimbursable for travel costs and travel allowances of travelers from the post of duty in the Cooperating Country to place of residence in the United States (or other location provided that the cost of such travel does not exceed the cost of travel to the employee's residence in the United States) and return to the post of duty in the Cooperating Country. Reimbursement for travel will be in accordance with the applicable cost principles and the provisions of this contract, and will be limited to the cost of travel by the most direct and expeditious route. When travel is by economy class accommodations, the Contractor will be reimbursed for the cost of transporting up to 10 kilograms/22 pounds of accompanied personal baggage per traveler in addition to that regularly allowed with the economy ticket provided that the total number of kilograms/pounds of baggage does not exceed that regularly allowed for first class travelers. Travel allowances for travelers shall not be in excess of the rates authorized in the Standardized Regulations as from time to time amended, for not more than the travel time required by scheduled commercial air carrier using the most expeditious route. One stopover en route for a period of not to exceed 24 hours is allowable when the traveler uses economy class accommodations for a trip of 14 hours or more of scheduled duration. Such stopover shall not be authorized when travel is by indirect route or is delayed for the convenience of the traveler. Per diem during such stopover shall be paid in accordance with the established practice of the Contractor but not to exceed the amounts stated in the Standardized Regulations.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(l) <i>Rest and recuperation travel.</i> The Contractor shall be reimbursed for the cost of travel performed by regular employees and dependents for purposes of rest and recuperation provided that such reimbursement does not exceed that authorized for USAID direct hire employees, and provided further that no reimbursement will be made unless approval is given by the Contractor's Chief of party.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(m) <i>Transportation of motor vehicles, personal effects and household goods.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Transportation, including packing and crating costs, will be paid for shipping from the point of origin in the United States (or other location as approved by the contracting officer) to post of duty in the Cooperating Country and return to point of origin in the United States (or other location as approved by the contracting officer) of one privately-owned vehicle for each regular employee, personal effects of travelers and household goods of each regular employee not to exceed the limitations in effect for such shipments for USAID direct hire employees in accordance with the Foreign Service Travel Regulations as in effect when shipment is made.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If a regular employee does not complete one full year at post of duty (except for reasons beyond his/her control), the costs for transportation of vehicles, effects and goods to and from the post of duty are not reimbursable hereunder. If the employee serves more than one year but less than the required service in the Cooperating Country (except for reasons beyond his/her control) the costs for transportation of vehicles, effects and goods to the post of duty are reimbursable hereunder but the costs for transportation of vehicles, effects and goods from post of duty to the employee's permanent, legal place of residence at the time he or she was employed for work under this contract or other location as approved by the contracting officer are not reimbursable under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The cost of transporting motor vehicles and household goods shall not exceed the cost of packing, crating and transportation by surface. In the event that the carrier does not require boxing or crating of motor vehicles for shipment to the Cooperating Country, the cost of boxing or crating is not reimbursable. The transportation of a privately-owned motor vehicle for a regular employee may be authorized by the Contractor as replacement of the last such motor vehicle shipped under this contract for the employee when the Mission Director or his/her designee determines in advance and so notifies the Contractor in writing that the replacement is necessary for reasons not due to the negligence or malfeasance of the regular employee. The determination shall be made under the same rules and regulations that apply to Mission employees.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(n) <i>Unaccompanied baggage.</i> Unaccompanied baggage is considered to be those personal belongings needed by the traveler immediately upon arrival at destination. To permit the arrival of effects to coincide with the arrival of regular employees and dependents, consideration should be given to advance shipments of unaccompanied baggage. The Contractor will be reimbursed for costs of shipment of unaccompanied baggage (in addition to the weight allowance for household effects) not to exceed the limitations in effect for USAID direct hire employees in accordance with the Foreign Service Travel Regulations as in effect when shipment is made.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">This unaccompanied baggage may be shipped as air freight by the most direct route between authorized points of origin and destination regardless of the modes of travel used. This provision is applicable to home leave travel and to short-term employees when these are authorized by the terms of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(o) <i>Storage of household effects.</i> The cost of storage charges (including packing, crating, and drayage costs) in the U.S. of household goods of regular employees will be permitted in lieu of transportation of all or any part of such goods to the Cooperating Country under paragraph (m) above provided that the total amount of effects shipped to the Cooperating Country or stored in the U.S. shall not exceed the amount authorized for USAID direct hire employees under the Uniform Foreign Service Travel Regulations.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(p) <i>International ocean transportation.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Flag eligibility requirements for ocean carriage are covered by the “Source and Nationality Requirements” clause of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Transportation of goods. Where U.S. flag vessels are not available, or their use would result in a significant delay, the Contractor must contact the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), Bureau for Management, Office of Acquisition and Assistance, Transportation Division (M/OAA/T) for required guidance and may obtain a release from this requirement from M/OAA/T. The contact email address for these matters is <i>Oceantransportation@USAID.gov.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) <i>Transportation of persons.</i> Where U.S. flag vessels are not available, or their use would result in a significant delay, the Contractor may obtain a release from this requirement from the contracting officer or the Mission Director, as appropriate.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Transportation of foreign-made vehicles.</i> Reimbursement of the costs of transporting a foreign-made motor vehicle will be made in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Service Travel Regulations.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Reduced rates on U.S. flag carriers.</i> Reduced rates on United States flag carriers are in effect for shipments of household goods and personal effects of USAID contract personnel. These reduced rates are available provided the shipper states on the bill of lading that the cargo is “Personal property-not for resale-payment of freight charges is at U.S. Government (USAID) expense and any special or diplomatic discounts accorded this type cargo are applicable.” The Contractor will not be reimbursed for shipments of household goods or personal effects in an amount in excess of the reduced rates available in accordance with the foregoing.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
