<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_702_170_1_T48_50113111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">702.170-1</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">A word or term, defined in this section, has the same meaning throughout the AIDAR.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Administrator</i> means the Administrator or Deputy Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Automated Directives System</i> (ADS) sets forth the Agency's policies and essential procedures, as well as supplementary informational references. It contains six functional series, valid USAID Handbook chapters, a resource library, and a glossary. References to “ADS” throughout 48 CFR chapter 7 are references to the Automated Directives System. The entire ADS is accessible to the general public at the following USAID Internet address: <i>http://www.usaid.gov/policy/ads/.</i>
                                 </p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contracting activities</i> also referred to as “procuring activities” within USAID are:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>The USAID/Washington activities.</i> The contracting activities located in Washington, DC are: The Bureau for Management, Office of Acquisition and Assistance (M/OAA); the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance, Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (DCHA/OFDA); and the Bureau for Economic Growth, Education and Environment, Office of Education (E3/ED). Subject to the limitations in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_701_601_T48_50112411"
                  href="Section_701_601_T48_50112411.dita#Section_701_601_T48_50112411">701.601</xref> of this chapter, the latter two contracting activities are responsible for procurements related to programs and activities for their areas. M/OAA is responsible for procurements that do not fall within the responsibility of other contracting activities, or that are otherwise assigned to it.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) <i>The overseas field contracting activities.</i> Each USAID Mission or post overseas is a contracting activity responsible for procurements related to its programs and activities, subject to the limitations in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_701_601_T48_50112411"
                  href="Section_701_601_T48_50112411.dita#Section_701_601_T48_50112411">701.601</xref> of this chapter.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Cooperating country</i> means a foreign country in which there is a program or activity administered by USAID.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Cooperating country national (CCN)</i> means an individual who is a cooperating country citizen or a non-cooperating country citizen lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the cooperating country.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Executive agency</i> includes the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and its predecessor agencies, including the International Cooperation Administration.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Foreign Assistance Act</i> means the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C., Chapter 32).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Government, Federal, State, local and political subdivisions,</i> as used in the FAR and AIDAR, do not refer to foreign entities except as otherwise stated.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Head of agency</i> means, for USAID, the Administrator, the Deputy Administrator, and in accordance with the responsibilities and limitations set forth in (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_701_601_T48_50112411"
                  href="Section_701_601_T48_50112411.dita#Section_701_601_T48_50112411">701.601</xref>(a)(1), the M/OAA Director.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Head of the contracting activity:</i>
                                 </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The heads of USAID contracting activities are listed below. The limits of their contracting authority are set forth in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_701_601_T48_50112411"
                  href="Section_701_601_T48_50112411.dita#Section_701_601_T48_50112411">701.601</xref> of this chapter.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			USAID/Washington Heads of Contracting Activities:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			Director, Bureau for Management, Office of Acquisition and Assistance;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(B) Director, the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance, Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (DCHA/OFDA); and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(C) Director, Bureau for Economic Growth, Education and Environment, Office of Education (E3/ED).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Overseas Heads of Contracting Activities: Each Mission Director or principal USAID officer at post (<i>e.g.</i> USAID Representative, USAID Affairs Officer, etc.).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) Individuals serving in the positions listed in paragraphs (1)(i) and (ii) of this definition in an “Acting” capacity may exercise the authority delegated to that position.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Mission</i> means the USAID mission or the principal USAID office or representative (including an embassy designated to so act) in a foreign country in which there is a program or activity administered by USAID.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Overseas</i> means outside the United States, its possessions, and Puerto Rico.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Procurement Executive</i> is synonymous with “Senior Procurement Executive” as defined in FAR 2.101 and means the USAID official who is responsible for the management direction of USAID's assistance and acquisition (“A&amp;A”) system, as so delegated and more fully described in USAID's internal delegations found in the ADS.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Procuring activity</i> means “contracting activity”, as defined in this subpart.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Third country national (TCN)</i> means an individual who is neither a cooperating country national nor a U.S. national, but is a citizen or lawful permanent resident (or equivalent immigration status) of any country other than the countries which are prohibited sources. (See 22 CFR 228.15).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>USAID</i> means the U.S. Agency for International Development and its predecessor agencies, including the International Cooperation Administration (ICA).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>U.S. national (USN)</i> means an individual who is a U.S. citizen or a non-U.S. citizen lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
