<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2152_237_70_T48_60746251115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2152.237-70</ph> Continuity of services.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2137_110_T48_6074420112"
                  href="Section_2137_110_T48_6074420112.dita#Section_2137_110_T48_6074420112">2137.110</xref>, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Continuity of Service (OCT 2005)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor recognizes that the services under this contract are vital to the Government and must be continued without interruption. The Contractor further recognizes that upon contract expiration or termination, including termination by the Contractor for OPM's failure to make timely premium payments, a successor, either the Government or another Contractor, may continue them. The Contractor agrees to furnish phase-in training and exercise its best efforts and cooperation to effect an orderly and efficient transition to a successor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall, upon the Contracting Officer's written notice, 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			furnish phase-in and phase-out services for up to 10 months after this contract expires and (2) negotiate in good faith a plan with a successor to determine the nature and extent of phase-in and phase-out services required. The plan shall specify a training program and a date for transferring responsibilities for each division of work described in the plan, and shall be subject to the Contracting Officer's approval. The Contractor shall provide sufficient experienced personnel during the phase-in and phase-out period to ensure that the services called for by this contract are maintained at the required level of proficiency.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor must allow as many experienced personnel as practicable to remain on the job during the transition period to help the successor maintain the continuity and consistency of the services required by this contract. The Contractor also must, except if prohibited by applicable law, disclose necessary personnel records and allow the successor to conduct onsite interviews with these employees. If selected employees are agreeable to the change, the Contractor must release them at a mutually agreeable date and negotiate transfer of their earned fringe benefits to the successor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor will be reimbursed for all reasonable phase-in, phase-out costs (i.e., costs incurred within the agreed period after contract termination that result from phase-in and phase-out operations) in accordance with the provisions of the administrative expense ceiling in the clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2152_231_70_T48_60746251111"
                  href="Section_2152_231_70_T48_60746251111.dita#Section_2152_231_70_T48_60746251111">2152.231-70</xref>(b)(2)(ii)(B) and a risk charge or a service charge (profit) not to exceed a pro rata portion of the risk or service charge under this contract. The amount of profit will be based upon the accurate and timely processing of benefit claims, the volume and validity of complaints received by OPM, the timeliness and adequacy of reports on operations, and responsiveness to OPM offices, enrollees, beneficiaries, and Congress. In setting the final profit figure, obstacles overcome by the Contractor during the phase-in and phase-out period will be taken into consideration. OPM will pay an incentive amount to the Contractor not to exceed the pro rata risk or service charge for the continuity of services period, if the Contractor has performed exceptionally during the transition period to a new Contractor. The Contracting Officer uses the weighted guidelines method described in LIFAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2115_404_71_T48_6074111413"
                  href="Section_2115_404_71_T48_6074111413.dita#Section_2115_404_71_T48_6074111413">2115.404-71</xref> in determining the incentive amount.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
