<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2109_7001_T48_607408211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2109.7001</ph> Minimum standards for FEGLI Program contractors.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor must meet the requirements of chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code; part 870 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; chapter 1 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations; and the standards in this subpart. The Contractor must continue to meet these and the following statutory and regulatory requirements while under contract with OPM. Failure to meet these requirements and standards is cause for OPM's termination of the contract in accordance with part 2149 of this chapter.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contractor must actually be engaged in the life insurance business and must be licensed to transact life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance under the laws of all the States and the District of Columbia at the time of application.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor must not be a Federal, State, local or territorial government entity.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The contractor must not be debarred, suspended or ineligible to participate in Government contracting or subcontracting for any reason.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contractor must keep statistical and financial records regarding the FEGLI Program separate from that of all its other lines of business.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contractor agrees to enter into annual premium rate redeterminations with OPM.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) The Contractor must furnish such reasonable reports as OPM determines are necessary to administer the FEGLI Program. The cost of preparation of such reports will be considered an allowable expense within the administrative expense ceiling defined in section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2152_231_70_T48_60746251111"
                  href="Section_2152_231_70_T48_60746251111.dita#Section_2152_231_70_T48_60746251111">2152.231-70</xref> of this chapter.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) The contractor must establish and maintain a system of internal control that provides reasonable assurance that:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The payment of claims and other expenses is in compliance with legal, regulatory, and contractual guidelines;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Funds, property, and other FEGLI Program assets are safeguarded against waste, loss, unauthorized use, or misappropriation;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Revenues and expenditures applicable to FEGLI Program operations are properly recorded and accounted for to permit the preparation of reliable financial reporting and to maintain accountability over assets; and,
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Data are accurately and fairly disclosed in all reports required by OPM.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) The contractor must permit representatives of OPM and of the General Accounting Office to audit and examine records and accounts pertaining to the FEGLI Program at such reasonable times and places as may be designated by OPM or the General Accounting Office.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
