<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2152_243_70_T48_60746251116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2152.243-70</ph> Changes.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2143_205_T48_6074521211"
                  href="Section_2143_205_T48_6074521211.dita#Section_2143_205_T48_6074521211">2143.205</xref>, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Changes (OCT 2005)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this clause, the Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Description of services to be performed;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Time of performance (i.e., hours of the day, days of the week, etc.); 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Place of performance of the services.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for, performance of any part of the work under this contract, or the Contractor's liability under this contract, whether or not changed by the order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price, the delivery schedule, or both, and shall modify the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days from the date of receipt of the written order. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If the Contractor's proposal includes the cost of property made obsolete or excess by the change, the Contracting Officer shall have the right to prescribe the manner of the disposition of the property.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contracting Officer shall not make any changes pursuant to paragraph (a) of this clause to conform this contract to any amendment in the LIFAR before the effective date of the amendment as provided for in LIFAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2101_370_T48_607392212"
                  href="Section_2101_370_T48_607392212.dita#Section_2101_370_T48_607392212">2101.370</xref>.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
