<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9903_305_T48_7010264319">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9903.305</ph> Materiality.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">In determining whether amounts of cost are material or immaterial, the following criteria shall be considered where appropriate; no one criterion is necessarily determinative:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The absolute dollar amount involved. The larger the dollar amount, the more likely that it will be material.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The amount of contract cost compared with the amount under consideration. The larger the proportion of the amount under consideration to contract cost, the more likely it is to be material.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The relationship between a cost item and a cost objective. Direct cost items, especially if the amounts are themselves part of a base for allocation of indirect costs, will normally have more impact than the same amount of indirect costs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The impact on Government funding. Changes in accounting treatment will have more impact if they influence the distribution of costs between Government and non-Government cost objectives than if all cost objectives have Government financial support.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The cumulative impact of individually immaterial items. It is appropriate to consider whether such impacts:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Tend to offset one another, or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Tend to be in the same direction and hence to accumulate into a material amount.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The cost of administrative processing of the price adjustment modification shall be considered. If the cost to process exceeds the amount to be recovered, it is less likely the amount will be material.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
