<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_420_30_T48_701026501190">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.420-30</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following are definitions of terms which are prominent in this Standard. Other terms defined elsewhere in this Chapter 99 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those definitions unless paragraph (b) of this subsection, requires otherwise.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Allocate</i> means to assign an item of cost, or a group of items of cost, to one or more cost objectives. This term includes both direct assignment of cost and the reassignment of a share from an indirect cost pool.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Bid and proposal (B&amp;P) cost</i> means the cost incurred in preparing, submitting, or supporting any bid or proposal which effort is neither sponsored by a grant, nor required in the performance of a contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Business unit</i> means any segment of an organization, or an entire business organization which is not divided into segments.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>General and administrative (G&amp;A) expense</i> means any management, financial, and other expenses which is incurred by or allocated to a business unit and which is for the general management and administration of the business unit as a whole. G&amp;A expense does not include those management expenses whose beneficial or causal relationship to cost objectives can be more directly measured by a base other than a cost input base representing the total activity of a business unit during a cost accounting period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Home office</i> means an office responsible for directing or managing two or more, but not necessarily all, segments of an organization. It typically establishes policy for, and provides guidance to the segments in their operations. It usually performs management, supervisory, or administrative functions, and may also perform service functions in support of the operations of the various segments. An organization which has intermediate levels, such as groups, may have several home offices which report to a common home office. An intermediate organization may be both a segment and a home office.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Independent research and development</i> means the cost of effort which is neither sponsored by a grant, nor required in the performance of a contract, and which falls within any of the following three areas:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Basic and applied research,
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Development, and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Systems and other concept formulation studies.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) <i>Indirect cost</i> means any cost not directly identified with a single final cost objective, but identified with two or more final cost objectives or with at least one intermediate cost objective.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) <i>Segment</i> means one of two or more divisions, product departments, plants, or other subdivisions of an organization reporting directly to a home office, usually identified with responsibility for profit and/or producing a product or service. The term includes Government-owned contractor-operated (GOCO) facilities, and joint ventures and subsidiaries (domestic and foreign) in which the organization has a majority ownership. The term also includes those joint ventures and subsidiaries (domestic and foreign) in which the organizations has less than a majority of ownership, but over which it exercises control.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following modifications of terms defined elsewhere in this chapter 99 are applicable to this Standard: None.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
