<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_412_40_T48_701026501116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.412-40</ph> Fundamental requirement.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Components of pension cost.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			For defined-benefit pension plans, except for plans accounted for under the pay-as-you-go cost method, the components of pension cost for a cost accounting period are (i) the normal cost of the period, (ii) a part of any unfunded actuarial liability, (iii) an interest equivalent on the unamortized portion of any unfunded actuarial liability, and (iv) an adjustment for any actuarial gains and losses. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) For defined-contribution pension plans, the pension cost for a cost accounting period is the net contribution required to be made for that period, after taking into account dividends and other credits, where applicable. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) For defined-benefit pension plans accounted for under the pay-as-you-go cost method, the components of pension cost for a cost accounting period are: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) The net amount of periodic benefits paid for that period, and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) An amortization installment, including an interest equivalent on the unamortized settlement amount, attributable to amounts paid to irrevocably settle an obligation for periodic benefits due in current and future cost accounting periods. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Measurement of pension cost.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			For defined-benefit pension plans other than those accounted for under the pay-as-you-go cost method, the amount of pension cost of a cost accounting period shall be determined by use of an immediate-gain actuarial cost method. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Each actuarial assumption used to measure pension cost shall be separately identified and shall represent the contractor's best estimates of anticipated experience under the plan, taking into account past experience and reasonable expectations. The validity of each assumption used shall be evaluated solely with respect to that assumption. Actuarial assumptions used in calculating the amount of an unfunded actuarial liability shall be the same as those used for other components of pension cost. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) For qualified defined benefit pension plans, the measurement of pension costs shall recognize the requirements of 9904.412-50(b)(7) for periods beginning with the “Applicability Date of the CAS Pension Harmonization Rule.” However, paragraphs 9904.413-50(c)(8), (9) and (12) are exempt from the requirements of 9904.412-50(b)(7).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Assignment of pension cost.</i> Except costs assigned to future periods by 9904.412-50(c) (2) and (5), the amount of pension cost computed for a cost accounting period is assignable only to that period. For defined-benefit pension plans other than those accounted for under the pay-as-you-go cost method, the pension cost is assignable only if the sum of 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			the unamortized portions of assignable unfunded actuarial liability developed and amortized pursuant to 9904.412-50(a)(1), and (2) the unassignable portions of unfunded actuarial liability separately identified and maintained pursuant to 9904.412-50(a)(2) equals the total unfunded actuarial liability. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Allocation of pension cost.</i> Pension costs assigned to a cost accounting period are allocable to intermediate and final cost objectives only if they meet the requirements for allocation in 9904.412-50(d). Pension costs not meeting these requirements may not be reassigned to any future cost accounting period. 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
