<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_403_30_T48_70102650125">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.403-30</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following are definitions of terms which are prominent in this Standard. Other terms defined elsewhere in this part 99 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those definitions unless paragraph (b) of this subsection, requires otherwise. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Allocate</i> means to assign an item of cost, or a group of items of cost, to one or more cost objectives. This term includes both direct assignments of cost and the reassignment of a share from an indirect cost pool.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Home office</i> means an office responsible for directing or managing two or more, but not necessarily all, segments of an organization. It typically establishes policy for, and provides guidance to the segments in their operations. It usually performs management, supervisory, or administrative functions, and may also perform service functions in support of the operations of the various segments. An organization which has intermediate levels, such as groups, may have several home offices which report to a common home office. An intermediate organization may be both a segment and a home office. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Operating revenue</i> means amounts accrued or charge to customers, clients, and tenants, for the sale of products manufactured or purchased for resale, for services, and for rentals of property held primarily for leasing to others. It includes both reimbursable costs and fees under cost-type contracts and percentage-of-completion sales accruals except that it includes only the fee for management contracts under which the contractor acts essentially as an agent of the Government in the erection or operation of Government-owned facilities. It excludes incidental interest, dividends, royalty, and rental income, and proceeds from the sale of assets used in the business. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Segment</i> means one of two or more divisions, product departments, plants, or other subdivisions of an organization reporting directly to a home office, usually identified with responsibility for profit and/or producing a product or service. The term includes Government-owned contractor-operated (GOCO) facilities, and joint ventures and subsidiaries (domestic and foreign) in which the organization has a majority ownership. The term also includes those joint ventures and subsidiaries (domestic and foreign) in which the organization has less than a majority of ownership, but over which it exercises control.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Tangible capital asset</i> means an asset that has physical substance, more than minimal value, and is expected to be held by an enterprise for continued use or possession beyond the current accounting period for the services it yields.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following modifications of terms defined elsewhere in this Chapter 99 are applicable to this Standard: None.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
