<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_402_50_T48_70102650117">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.402-50</ph> Techniques for application.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Fundamental Requirement is stated in terms of cost incurred and is equally applicable to estimates of costs to be incurred as used in contract proposals.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Disclosure Statement to be submitted by the contractor will require that he set forth his cost accounting practices with regard to the distinction between direct and indirect costs. In addition, for those types of cost which are sometimes accounted for as direct and sometimes accounted for as indirect, the contractor will set forth in his Disclosure Statement the specific criteria and circumstances for making such distinctions. In essence, the Disclosure Statement submitted by the contractor, by distinguishing between direct and indirect costs, and by describing the criteria and circumstances for allocating those items which are sometimes direct and sometimes indirect, will be determinative as to whether or not costs are incurred for the same purpose. Disclosure Statement as used herein refers to the statement required to be submitted by contractors as a condition of contracting as set forth in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_9903_2_T48_70102642"
                  href="Subpart_9903_2_T48_70102642.dita#Subpart_9903_2_T48_70102642">9903.2</xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) In the event that a contractor has not submitted a Disclosure Statement, the determination of whether specific costs are directly allocable to contracts shall be based upon the contractor's cost accounting practices used at the time of contract proposal.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Whenever costs which serve the same purpose cannot equitably be indirectly allocated to one or more final cost objectives in accordance with the contractor's disclosed accounting practices, the contractor may either:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Use a method for reassigning all such costs which would provide an equitable distribution to all final cost objectives, or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Directly assign all such costs to final cost objectives with which they are specifically identified.
</p>
         <p xtrc="FP">In the event the contractor decides to make a change for either purpose, the Disclosure Statement shall be amended to reflect the revised accounting practices involved.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Any direct cost of minor dollar amount may be treated as an indirect cost for reasons of practicality where the accounting treatment for such cost is consistently applied to all final cost objectives, provided that such treatment produces results which are substantially the same as the results which would have been obtained if such cost had been treated as a direct cost.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
