<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_413_40_T48_701026501129">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.413-40</ph> Fundamental requirement.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Assignment of actuarial gains and losses. Actuarial gains and losses shall be calculated annually and shall be assigned to the cost accounting period for which the actuarial valuation is made and subsequent periods.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Valuation of the assets of a pension plan.</i> The actuarial value of the assets of a pension plan shall be determined under an asset valuation method which takes into account unrealized appreciation and depreciation of the market value of the assets of the pension plan, including the accumulated value of permitted unfunded accruals, and shall be used in measuring the components of pension costs. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Allocation of pension cost to segments.</i> Contractors shall allocate pension costs to each segment having participants in a pension plan.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) A separate calculation of pension costs for a segment is required when the conditions set forth in 9904.413-50(c)(2) or (3) are present. When these conditions are not present, allocations may be made by calculating a composite pension cost for two or more segments and allocating this cost to these segments by means of an allocation base.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) When pension costs are separately computed for a segment or segments, the provisions of Cost Accounting Standard 9904.412 regarding the assignable cost limitation shall be based on the actuarial value of assets, actuarial accrued liability and normal cost for the segment or segments for purposes of such computations. In addition, for purposes of 9904.412-50(c)(2)(iii), the amount of pension cost assignable to a segment or segments shall not exceed the sum of:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) The maximum tax-deductible amount computed for the plan as a whole, and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The accumulated value of prepayment credits not already allocated to segments apportioned among the segment(s). 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
