<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9903.201-2</ph> Types of CAS coverage.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Full coverage.</i> Full coverage requires that the business unit comply with all of the CAS specified in part 9904 that are in effect on the date of the contract award and with any CAS that become applicable because of later award of a CAS-covered contract. Full coverage applies to contractor business units that - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Receive a single CAS-covered contract award of $50 million or more; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Received $50 million or more in net CAS-covered awards during its preceding cost accounting period. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Modified coverage.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Modified CAS coverage requires only that the contractor comply with Standard <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9904_401_T48_7010265012"
                  href="Section_9904_401_T48_7010265012.dita#Section_9904_401_T48_7010265012">9904.401</xref>, Consistency in Estimating, Accumulating, and Reporting Costs, Standard <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9904_402_T48_70102650112"
                  href="Section_9904_402_T48_70102650112.dita#Section_9904_402_T48_70102650112">9904.402</xref>, Consistency in Allocating Costs Incurred for the Same Purpose, Standard <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9904_405_T48_70102650142"
                  href="Section_9904_405_T48_70102650142.dita#Section_9904_405_T48_70102650142">9904.405</xref>, Accounting for Unallowable Costs and Standard <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9904_406_T48_70102650152"
                  href="Section_9904_406_T48_70102650152.dita#Section_9904_406_T48_70102650152">9904.406</xref>, Cost Accounting Standard - Cost Accounting Period. Modified, rather, than full, CAS coverage may be applied to a covered contract of less than $50 million awarded to a business unit that received less than $50 million in net CAS-covered awards in the immediately preceding cost accounting period. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If any one contract is awarded with modified CAS coverage, all CAS-covered contracts awarded to that business unit during that cost accounting period must also have modified coverage with the following exception: if the business unit receives a single CAS-covered contract award of $50 million or more, that contract must be subject to full CAS coverage. Thereafter, any covered contract awarded in the same cost accounting period must also be subject to full CAS coverage.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A contract awarded with modified CAS coverage shall remain subject to such coverage throughout its life regardless of changes in the business unit's CAS status during subsequent cost accounting periods. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Coverage for educational institutions</i> - 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Regulatory requirements.</i> Parts 9903 and 9905 apply to educational institutions except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c) and at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111"
                  href="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111.dita#Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111">9903.202-1</xref>(f).</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Definitions.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The following term is prominent in parts 9903 and 9905. Other terms defined elsewhere in this chapter 99 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those definitions unless paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this subsection below requires otherwise. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Educational institution</i> means a public or nonprofit institution of higher education, e.g., an accredited college or university, as defined in section 1201(a) of Public Law 89-329, November 8, 1965, Higher Education Act of 1965; (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)). 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(ii) The following modifications of terms defined elsewhere in this chapter 99 are applicable to educational institutions: 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Business unit</i> means any segment of an educational institution, or an entire educational institution which is not divided into segments. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Segment</i> means one of two or more divisions, campus locations, or other subdivisions of an educational institution that operate as independent organizational entities under the auspices of the parent educational institution and report directly to an intermediary group office or the governing central system office of the parent educational institution. Two schools of instruction operating under one division, campus location or other subdivision would not be separate segments unless they follow different cost accounting practices, for example, the School of Engineering should not be treated as a separate segment from the School of Humanities if they both are part of the same division's cost accounting system and are subject to the same cost accounting practices. The term includes Government-owned contractor-operated (GOCO) facilities, Federally Funded Research and Developments Centers (FFRDCs), and joint ventures and subsidiaries (domestic and foreign) in which the institution has a majority ownership. The term also includes those joint ventures and subsidiaries (domestic and foreign) in which the institution has less than a majority of ownership, but over which it exercises control. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(3) <i>Applicable standards.</i> Coverage for educational institutions requires that the business unit comply with all of the CAS specified in part 9905 that are in effect on the date of the contract award and with any CAS that become applicable because of later award of a CAS-covered contract. This coverage applies to business units that receive negotiated contracts in excess of the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) threshold, as adjusted for inflation (41 U.S.C. 1908 and 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B)), except for CAS-covered contracts awarded to FFRDCs operated by an educational institution.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(4) <i>FFRDCs.</i> Negotiated contracts awarded to an FFRDC operated by an educational institution are subject to the full or modified CAS coverage prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection. CAS-covered FFRDC contracts shall be excluded from the institution's universe of contracts when determining CAS applicability and disclosure requirements for contracts other than those to be performed by the FFRDC. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(5) <i>Contract clauses.</i> The contract clause at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_4_T48_7010264215"
                  href="Section_9903_201_4_T48_7010264215.dita#Section_9903_201_4_T48_7010264215">9903.201-4</xref>(e) shall be incorporated in each negotiated contract and subcontract awarded to an educational institution when the negotiated contract or subcontract price exceeds the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) threshold, as adjusted for inflation (41 U.S.C. 1908 and 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B)). For CAS-covered contracts awarded to an FFRDC operated by an educational institution, however, the full or modified CAS contract clause specified at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_4_T48_7010264215"
                  href="Section_9903_201_4_T48_7010264215.dita#Section_9903_201_4_T48_7010264215">9903.201-4</xref>(a) or (c), as applicable, shall be incorporated.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(6) <i>Continuity in fully CAS-covered contracts.</i> Where existing contracts awarded to an educational institution incorporate full CAS coverage, the contracting officer may continue to apply full CAS coverage, as prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213"
                  href="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213.dita#Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213">9903.201-2</xref>(a), in future awards made to that educational institution. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Subcontracts.</i> Subcontract awards subject to CAS require the same type of CAS coverage as would prime contracts awarded to the same business unit. In measuring total net CAS-covered awards for a year, a transfer by one segment to another shall be deemed to be a subcontract award by the transferor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Foreign concerns.</i> Contracts with foreign concerns subject to CAS shall only be subject to Standard <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9904_401_T48_7010265012"
                  href="Section_9904_401_T48_7010265012.dita#Section_9904_401_T48_7010265012">9904.401</xref>, Consistency in Estimating, Accumulating, and Reporting Costs, and Standard <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9904_402_T48_70102650112"
                  href="Section_9904_402_T48_70102650112.dita#Section_9904_402_T48_70102650112">9904.402</xref>, Consistency in Allocating Costs Incurred for the Same Purpose.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
