<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_401_60_T48_7010265018">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.401-60</ph> Illustrations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following examples are illustrative of applications of cost accounting practices which are deemed to be consistent.
</p>
         <p xtrc="DIV">
                                 
                                    <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="2" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1">Practices used in estimating costs for proposals
</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2">Practices used in accumulating and reporting costs of contract performance
</entry>
                                       </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">1. Contractor estimates an average direct labor rate for manufacturing direct labor by labor category or function</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">1. Contractor records manufacturing direct labor based on actual cost for each individual and collects such costs by labor category or function.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">2. Contract estimates an average cost for minor standard hardware items, including nuts, bolts, washers, etc</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">2. Contractor records actual cost for minor standard hardware items based upon invoices or material transfer slips.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">3. Contractor uses an estimated rate for manufacturing overhead to be applied to an estimated direct labor base. He identifies the items included in his estimate of manufacturing overhead and provides supporting data for the estimated direct labor base</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">3. Contractor accounts for manufacturing overhead by individual items of cost which are accumulated in a cost pool allocated to final cost objectives on a direct labor base.</entry>
                                       </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                 
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following examples are illustrative of application of cost accounting practices which are deemed not to be consistent.
</p>
         <p xtrc="DIV">
                                 
                                    <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="2" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1">Practices used for estimating costs for proposals
</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2">Practices used in accumulating and reporting costs of contract performance
</entry>
                                       </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">4. Contractor estimates a total dollar amount for engineering labor which includes disparate and significant elements or functions of engineering labor. Contractor does not provide supporting data reconciling this amount to the estimates for the same engineering labor cost functions for which he will separately account in contract performance</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">4. Contractor accounts for engineering labor by cost function, i.e. drafting, designing, production, engineering, etc.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">5. Contractor estimates engineering labor by cost function, i.e. drafting, production engineering, etc</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">5. Contractor accumulates total engineering labor in one undifferentiated account.
</entry>
                                       </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                          <entry colname="1" align="left">6. Contractor estimates a single dollar amount for machining cost to cover labor, material and overhead</entry>
                                          <entry colname="2" align="left">6. Contractor records separately the actual costs of machining labor and material as direct costs, and factory overhead as indirect costs.</entry>
                                       </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                 
                              </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
