<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9903_201_3_T48_7010264214">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9903.201-3</ph> Solicitation provisions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer shall insert the provision set forth below, Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification, in solicitations for proposed contracts subject to CAS as specified in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211"
                  href="Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211.dita#Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211">9903.201</xref>. The provision allows offerors to -  
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Certify their Disclosure Statement status; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) [Reserved] 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Claim exemption from full CAS coverage and elect modified CAS coverage when appropriate; and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Certify whether award of the contemplated contract would require a change to existing cost accounting practices. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If an award to an educational institution is contemplated prior to July 1, 1997, the contracting officer shall use the basic provision set forth below with its Alternate I, unless the contract is to be performed by an FFRDC (see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211"
                  href="Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211.dita#Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211">9903.201</xref>(c)(5)), or the provision at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211"
                  href="Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211.dita#Section_9903_201_T48_7010264211">9903.201</xref>(c)(6) applies.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Cost Accounting Standards Notices and Certification (JUL 2011) 
</p>
                                    
                                       <p>
            <b>Note:</b>
         </p>
                                       <p outputclass="Normal">This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments.</p>
                                    
                                    <p xtrc="P">This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I through III.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements applicable to any resultant contract.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">If the offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the contemplated contract will be subject to full or modified CAS-coverage pursuant to <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213"
                  href="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213.dita#Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213">9903.201-2</xref>(c)(5) or <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213"
                  href="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213.dita#Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213">9903.201-2</xref>(c)(6). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">I. Disclosure Statement - Cost Accounting Practices and Certifications 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Any contract in excess of the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) threshold, as adjusted for inflation (41 U.S.C. 1908 and 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B)), resulting from this solicitation, except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_1_T48_7010264212"
                  href="Section_9903_201_1_T48_7010264212.dita#Section_9903_201_1_T48_7010264212">9903.201-1</xref>.</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR, chapter 99 must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_202_T48_70102642110"
                  href="Section_9903_202_T48_70102642110.dita#Section_9903_202_T48_70102642110">9903.202</xref>. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the offeror's proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       Caution: In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to-practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Check the appropriate box below: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ (1) Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The offeror hereby certifies that, as a part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows: (i) Original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to act in that capacity, as applicable, and (ii) one copy to the cognizant Federal auditor. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB DS-2, as applicable. Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or cognizant Federal agency official acting in that capacity and/or from the looseleaf version of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Date of Disclosure Statement: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official where filed:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ (2) Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement. The offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Date of Disclosure Statement: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official where filed:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ (3) Certificate of Monetary Exemption. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The offeror hereby certifies that the offeror, together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $50 million or more in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ (4) Certificate of Interim Exemption. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The offeror hereby certifies that (i) the offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) above, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted and (ii) in accordance with <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111"
                  href="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111.dita#Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111">9903.202-1</xref>, the offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement. The offeror further certifies that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the offeror will immediately submit a revised certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under subparagraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of Part I of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">CAUTION: Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4). Further, the exemption applies only in connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary exemption was exceeded. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">II. Cost Accounting Standards - Eligibility for Modified Contact Coverage 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">If the offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213"
                  href="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213.dita#Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213">9903.201-2</xref>(b) and elects to do so, the offeror shall indicate by checking the box below. Checking the box below shall mean that the resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ The offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213"
                  href="Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213.dita#Section_9903_201_2_T48_7010264213">9903.201-2</xref>(b) and certifies that the offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the offeror received less than $50 million in awards of CAS-covered prime contracts and subcontracts. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">CAUTION: An offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a CAS-covered contract of $50 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">III. Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with subparagraph (a)(3) of the Cost Accounting Standards clause, require a change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ Yes □ No</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (OCT 1994). Insert the following subparagraph (5) at the end of Part I of the basic clause: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ (5) Certificate of Disclosure Statement Due Date by Educational Institution. If the offeror is an educational institution that, under the transition provisions of <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111"
                  href="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111.dita#Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111">9903.202-1</xref>(f), is or will be required to submit a Disclosure Statement after receipt of this award, the offeror hereby certifies that (check one and complete): 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ (a) A Disclosure Statement filing Due Date of ______ has been established with the cognizant Federal agency. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">□ (b) The Disclosure Statement will be submitted within the six month period ending ______ months after receipt of this award.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official where Disclosure Statement is to be filed: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of Alternate I)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
