<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_411_30_T48_701026501105">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.411-30</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following are definitions of terms which are prominent in this Standard. Other terms elsewhere in this chapter 99 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those definitions unless paragraph (b) of this subsection, requires otherwise.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Allocate</i> means to assign an item of cost, or a group of items of cost, to one or more cost objectives. This term includes both direct assignment of cost and the reassignment of a share from an indirect cost pool.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Business unit</i> means any segment of an organization, or an entire business organization which is not divided into segments.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Category of material</i> means a particular kind of goods, comprised of identical or interchangeable units, acquired or produced by a contractor, which are intended to be sold, or consumed or used in the performance of either direct or indirect functions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Cost objective</i> means a function, organizational subdivision, contract or other work unit for which cost data are desired and for which provision is made to accumulate and measure the cost of processes, products, jobs, capitalized projects, etc.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Material inventory record</i> means any record used for the accumulation of actual or standard costs of a category of material recorded as an asset for subsequent cost allocation to one or more cost objectives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Moving average cost</i> means an inventory costing method under which an average unit cost is computed after each acquisition by adding the cost of the newly acquired units to the cost of the units of inventory on hand and dividing this figure by the new total number of units.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) <i>Weighted average cost</i> means an inventory costing method under which an average unit cost is computed periodically by dividing the sum of the cost of beginning inventory plus the cost of acquisitions by the total number of units included in these two categories.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following modifications of terms defined elsewhere in this chapter 99 are applicable to this Standard: None.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
