<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_411_50_T48_701026501107">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.411-50</ph> Techniques for application.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Material cost shall be the acquisition cost of a category of material, whether or not a material inventory record is used. The purchase price of material shall be adjusted by extra charges incurred or discounts and credits earned. Such adjustments shall be charged or credited to the same cost objective as the purchase price of the material, except that where it is not practical to do so, the contractor's policy may provide for the consistent inclusion of such charges or credits in an appropriate indirect cost pool.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) One of the following inventory costing methods shall be used when issuing material from a company-owned inventory:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The moving average cost method.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The weighted average cost method.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The standard cost method.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) The last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The method of computation used for any inventory costing method selected pursuant to the provisions of this Standard shall be consistently followed.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Where the excess of the ending inventory over the beginning inventory of material of the type described in 9904.411-40(c) is estimated to be significant in relation to the total cost included in the indirect cost pool, the cost of such unconsumed material shall be established as an asset at the end of the period by reducing the indirect cost pool by a corresponding amount.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
