<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_420_50_T48_701026501192">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.420-50</ph> Techniques for application.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The IR&amp;D and B&amp;P project costs shall include 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			costs, which if incurred in like circumstances for a final cost objective, would be treated as direct costs of that final cost objective, and (2) the overhead costs of productive activities and other indirect costs related to the project based on the contractor's cost accounting practice or applicable Cost Accounting Standards for allocation of indirect costs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The IR&amp;D and B&amp;P cost pools for a segment consist of the project costs plus allocable home office IR&amp;D and B&amp;P costs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) When the costs of individual IR&amp;D or B&amp;P efforts are not material in amount, these costs may be accumulated in one or more project(s) within each of these two types of effort.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The costs of any work performed by one segment for another segment shall not be treated as IR&amp;D costs or B&amp;P costs of the performing segment unless the work is a part of an IR&amp;D or B&amp;P project of the performing segment. If such work is part of a performing segment's IR&amp;D or B&amp;P project, the project will be transferred to the home office to be allocated in accordance with paragraph (e) of this subsection.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The costs of IR&amp;D and B&amp;P projects accumulated at a home office shall be allocated to its segments as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Projects which can be identified with a specific segment(s) shall have their costs allocated to such segment(s).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The costs of all other IR&amp;D and B&amp;P projects shall be allocated among all segments by means of the same base used by the company to allocate its residual expenses in accordance with 9904.403; provided, however, where a particular segment receives significantly more or less benefit from the IR&amp;D or B&amp;P costs than would be reflected by the allocation of such costs to the segment by the base, the Government and the contractor may agree to a special allocation of the IR&amp;D or B&amp;P costs to such segment commensurate with the benefits received. The amount of a special allocation to any segment made pursuant to such an agreement shall be excluded from the IR&amp;D and B&amp;P cost pools to be allocated to other segments and the base data of any such segment shall be excluded from the base used to allocate these pools.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The costs of IR&amp;D and B&amp;P projects accumulated at a business unit shall be allocated to cost objectives as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Where costs of any IR&amp;D or B&amp;P project benefit more than one segment of the organization, the amounts to be allocated to each segment shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this subsection.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The IR&amp;D and B&amp;P cost pools which are not allocated under subparagraph (f)(1) of this subsection, shall be allocated to all final cost objectives of the business unit by means of the same base used by the business unit to allocate its general and administrative expenses in accordance with 9904.410-50; provided, however, where a particular final cost objective receives significantly more or less benefit from IR&amp;D or B&amp;P cost than would be reflected by the allocation of such costs the Government and the contractor may agree to a special allocation of the IR&amp;D or B&amp;P costs to such final cost objective commensurate with the benefits received. The amount of special allocation to any such final cost objective made pursuant to such an agreement shall be excluded from the IR&amp;D and B&amp;P cost pools to be allocated to other final cost objectives and the particular final cost objective's base data shall be excluded from the base used to allocate these pools.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d), (e) or (f) of this subsection, the costs of IR&amp;D and B&amp;P projects allocable to a home office pursuant to 9904.420-50(d) may be allocated directly to the receiving segments, provided that such allocation not be substantially different from the allocation that would be made if they were first passed through home office accounts.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
