<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9903.202-1</ph> General requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) A Disclosure Statement is a written description of a contractor's cost accounting practices and procedures. The submission of a new or revised Disclosure Statement is not required for any non-CAS-covered contract or from any small business concern.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Completed Disclosure Statements are required in the following circumstances:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Any business unit that is selected to receive a CAS-covered contract or subcontract of $50 million or more shall submit a Disclosure Statement before award. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any company which, together with its segments, received net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $50 million or more in its most recent cost accounting period, must submit a Disclosure Statement before award of its first CAS-covered contract in the immediately following cost accounting period. However, if the first CAS-covered contract is received within 90 days of the start of the cost accounting period, the contractor is not required to file until the end of 90 days. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) When a Disclosure Statement is required, a separate Disclosure Statement must be submitted for each segment whose costs included in the total price of any CAS-covered contract or subcontract exceed the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) threshold, as adjusted for inflation (41 U.S.C. 1908 and 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B)) unless
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The contract or subcontract is of the type or value exempted by <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_201_1_T48_7010264212"
                  href="Section_9903_201_1_T48_7010264212.dita#Section_9903_201_1_T48_7010264212">9903.201-1</xref> or 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) In the most recently completed cost accounting period the segment's CAS-covered awards are less than 30 percent of total segment sales for the period and less than $10 million.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Each corporate or other home office that allocates costs to one or more disclosing segments performing CAS-covered contracts must submit a Part VIII of the Disclosure Statement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Foreign contractors and subcontractors who are required to submit a Disclosure Statement may, in lieu of filing a Form No CASB-DS-1, make disclosure by using a disclosure form prescribed by an agency of its Government, provided that the Cost Accounting Standards Board determines that the information disclosed by that means will satisfy the objectives of Public Law 100-679. The use of alternative forms has been approved for the contractors of the following countries:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Canada.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Federal Republic of Germany.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) United Kingdom.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Educational institutions - disclosure requirements.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Educational institutions receiving contracts subject to the CAS specified in part 9905 are subject to the requirements of <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_202_T48_70102642110"
                  href="Section_9903_202_T48_70102642110.dita#Section_9903_202_T48_70102642110">9903.202</xref>, except that completed Disclosure Statements are required in the following circumstances. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Basic requirement.</i> For CAS-covered contracts placed on or after January 1, 1996, completed Disclosure Statements are required as follows: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Any business unit of an educational institution that is selected to receive a CAS-covered contract or subcontract in excess of the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) threshold, as adjusted for inflation (41 U.S.C. 1908 and 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B)), and is part of a college or university location listed in Exhibit A of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-21 shall submit a Disclosure Statement before award. A Disclosure Statement is not required; however, if the listed entity can demonstrate that the net amount of Federal contract and financial assistance awards received during its immediately preceding cost accounting period was less than $25 million.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Any business unit that is selected to receive a CAS-covered contract or subcontract of $25 million or more shall submit a Disclosure Statement before award. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Any educational institution which, together with its segments, received net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $25 million or more in its most recent cost accounting period, of which, at least one award exceeded $1 million, must submit a Disclosure Statement before award of its first CAS-covered contract in the immediately following cost accounting period. However, if the first CAS-covered contract is received within 90 days of the start of the cost accounting period, the institution is not required to file until the end of 90 days. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Transition period requirement.</i> For CAS-covered contracts placed on or before December 31, 1995, completed Disclosure Statements are required as follows: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) For business units that are selected to receive a CAS-covered contract or subcontract in excess of the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) threshold, as adjusted for inflation (41 U.S.C. 1908 and 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B)), and are part of the first 20 college or university locations (<i>i.e.,</i> numbers 1 through 20) listed in Exhibit A of OMB Circular A-21, Disclosure Statements shall be submitted within six months after the date of contract award.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) For business units that are selected to receive a CAS-covered contract or subcontract in excess of the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) threshold, as adjusted for inflation (41 U.S.C. 1908 and 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B)), and are part of a college or university location that is listed as one of the institutions numbered 21 through 50, in Exhibit A of OMB Circular A-21, Disclosure Statements shall be submitted during the six month period ending twelve months after the date of contract award.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) For business units that are selected to receive a CAS-covered contract or subcontract in excess of the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA) threshold, as adjusted for inflation (41 U.S.C. 1908 and 41 U.S.C. 1502(b)(1)(B)), and are part of a college or university location that is listed as one of the institutions numbered 51 through 99, in Exhibit A of OMB Circular A-21, Disclosure Statements shall be submitted during the six month period ending eighteen months after the date of contract award.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) For any other business unit that is selected to receive a CAS-covered contract or subcontract of $25 million or more, a Disclosure Statement shall be submitted within six months after the date of contract award. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Transition period due dates.</i> The educational institution and cognizant Federal agency should establish a specific due date within the periods prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111"
                  href="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111.dita#Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111">9903.202-1</xref>(f)(3) when a Disclosure Statement is required under a CAS-covered contract placed on or before December 31, 1995. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Transition period waiver authority.</i> For a CAS-covered contract to be awarded during the period January 1, 1996, through June 30, 1997, the awarding agency may waive the preaward Disclosure Statement submission requirement specified in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111"
                  href="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111.dita#Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111">9903.202-1</xref>(f)(2) when a due date for the submission of a Disclosure Statement has previously been established by the cognizant Federal agency and the educational institution under the provisions of <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111"
                  href="Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111.dita#Section_9903_202_1_T48_70102642111">9903.202-1</xref>(f) (3) and (4).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       Caution: This waiver authority is not available unless the cognizant Federal agency and the educational institution have established a disclosure statement due date pursuant to a written agreement executed prior to January 1, 1996, and award is made prior to the established disclosure statement due date.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
