<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_404_30_T48_70102650135">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.404-30</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following are definitions of terms which are prominent in this standard. Other terms defined elsewhere in this part 99 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those definitions unless paragraph (b) of this subsection, requires otherwise.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Asset accountability unit</i> means a tangible capital asset which is a component of plant and equipment that is capitalized when acquired or whose replacement is capitalized when the unit is removed, transferred, sold, abandoned, demolished, or otherwise disposed of.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Original complement of low cost equipment</i> means a group of items acquired for the initial outfitting of a tangible capital asset or an operational unit, or a new addition to either. The items in the group individually cost less than the minimum amount established by the contractor for capitalization for the classes of assets acquired but in the aggregate they represent a material investment. The group, as a complement, is expected to be held for continued service beyond the current period. Initial outfitting of the unit is completed when the unit is ready and available for normal operations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Repairs and maintenance</i> generally means the total endeavor to obtain the expected service during the life of tangible capital assets. Maintenance is the regularly recurring activity of keeping assets in normal or expected operating condition while repair is the activity of putting them back into such condition. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Tangible capital asset</i> means an asset that has physical substance, more than minimal value, and is expected to be held by an enterprise for continued use or possession beyond the current accounting period for the service it yields.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following modifications of terms defined elsewhere in this chapter 99 are applicable to this Standard: None.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
