<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_414_50_T48_701026501142">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.414-50</ph> Techniques for application.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The investment base used in computing the cost of money for facilities capital shall be computed from accounting data used for contract cost purposes. The form and instructions stipulated in this Standard shall be used to make the computation.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The cost of money rate for any cost accounting period shall be the arithmetic mean of the interest rates specified by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Public Law 92-41 (85 stat. 97). Where the cost of money must be determined on a prospective basis, the cost of money rate shall be based on the most recent available rate published by the Secretary of the Treasury.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			A facilities capital cost of money factor shall be determined for each indirect cost pool to which a significant amount of facilities capital has been allocated and which is used to allocate indirect costs to final cost objectives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The facilities capital cost of money factor for an indirect cost pool shall be determined in accordance with Form CASB CMF, and its instructions which are set forth in appendix A to 9904.414. One form will serve for all the indirect cost pools of a business unit.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) For each CAS-covered contract, the applicable cost of capital committed to facilities for a given cost accounting period is the sum of the products obtained by multiplying the amount of allocation base units (such as direct labor hours, or dollars of total cost input) identified with the contract for the cost accounting period by the facilities capital cost of money factor for the corresponding indirect cost pool. In the case of process cost accounting systems, the contracting parties may agree to substitute an appropriate statistical measure for the allocation base units identified with the contract.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
