<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_409_30_T48_70102650185">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.409-30</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following are definitions of terms which are prominent in this Standard. Other terms defined elsewhere in this Chapter 99 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those definitions unless paragraph (b) of this subsection, requires otherwise.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Residual value</i> means the proceeds (less removal and disposal costs, if any) realized upon disposition of a tangible capital asset. It usually is measured by the net proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the asset, or its fair value if the asset is traded in on another asset. The estimated residual value is a current forecast of the residual value.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Service life</i> means the period of usefulness of a tangible asset (or group of assets) to its current owner. The period may be expressed in units of time or output. The estimated service life of a tangible capital asset (or group of assets) is a current forecast of its service life and is the period over which depreciation cost is to be assigned.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Tangible capital asset</i> means an asset that has physical substance, more than minimal value, and is expected to be held by an enterprise for continued use or possession beyond the current accounting period for the services it yields.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following modifications of terms defined elsewhere in this Chapter 99 are applicable to this Standard: None.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
