<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1052_201_70_T48_5043413111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1052.201-70</ph> Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) appointment and authority.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1001.670-6, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) Appointment and Authority (APR 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The COR is ____ [insert name, address and telephone number].
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Performance of work under this contract is subject to the technical direction of the COR identified above, or a representative designated in writing. The term “technical direction” includes, without limitation, direction to the contractor that directs or redirects the labor effort, shifts the work between work areas or locations, and/or fills in details and otherwise serves to ensure that tasks outlined in the work statement are accomplished satisfactorily.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Technical direction must be within the scope of the contract specification(s)/work statement. The COR does not have authority to issue technical direction that:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Constitutes a change of assignment or additional work outside the contract specification(s)/work statement;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Constitutes a change as defined in the clause entitled “Changes”;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) In any manner causes an increase or decrease in the contract price, or the time required for contract performance;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Changes any of the terms, conditions, or specification(s)/work statement of the contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Interferes with the contractor's right to perform under the terms and conditions of the contract; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Directs, supervises or otherwise controls the actions of the Contractor's employees.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Technical direction may be oral or in writing. The COR must confirm oral direction in writing within five workdays, with a copy to the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor shall proceed promptly with performance resulting from the technical direction issued by the COR. If, in the opinion of the Contractor, any direction of the COR or the designated representative falls within the limitations of (c) above, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer no later than the beginning of the next Government work day.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Failure of the Contractor and the Contracting Officer to agree that technical direction is within the scope of the contract shall be subject to the terms of the clause entitled “Disputes.”</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
