<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1052_232_70_T48_50434131110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1052.232-70</ph> Limitation of Government's obligation.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1032.770-7, insert the following clause. Contracting officers are authorized, in appropriate cases, to revise paragraph (a) of this clause to specify the work required under the contract, in lieu of using contract line item numbers as well as revise paragraph (c) of this clause to specify a different notification period and percentage. The 30-day period may be varied from 45, 60 to 90 days, and the 75 percent from 75 to 85 percent:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Limitation of Government's Obligation (NOV 2016)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Funding is not currently available to fully fund this contract due to the Government operating under a continuing resolution (CR). The item(s) listed in the table below are being incrementally funded as described below. The funding allotted to these item(s) is presently available for payment and allotted to this contract. This table will be updated by a modification to the contract when additional funds are made available, if any, to this contract.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="DIV">
                                       
                                          <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="4" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1">Contract line item number
(CLIN)
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2">CLIN
total price
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3">Funds
allotted to the
CLIN
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4">Funds
required for complete
funding of the
CLIN
</entry>
                                             </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left">$
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left">$
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left">$
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> </entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left">$
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left">Totals</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="left">$</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="left">$</entry>
                                             </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                       
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) For the incrementally funded item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor agrees to perform up to the point at which the total amount payable by the Government, including any invoice payments to which the Contractor is entitled and reimbursement of authorized termination costs in the event of termination of those item(s) for the Government's convenience, does not exceed the total amount currently obligated to those item(s). The Contractor is not authorized to continue work on these item(s) beyond that point. The Government will not be obligated in any event to reimburse the Contractor in excess of the amount allotted to the line items of the contract regardless of anything to the contrary in any other clause, including but not limited to the clause entitled “Termination for Convenience of the Government” or paragraph 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			entitled “Termination for the Government's Convenience” of the clause at FAR 52.212-4, “Commercial Terms and Conditions Commercial Items.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (h) of this clause, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing at least thirty days prior to the date when, in the Contractor's best judgment, the work will reach the point at which the total amount payable by the Government, including any cost for termination for convenience, will approximate 85 percent of the total amount then allotted to the contract for performance of the item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause. The notification shall state the estimated date when that point will be reached and an estimate of additional funding, if any, needed to continue performance. The notification shall also advise the Contracting Officer of the estimated amount of additional funds required for the timely performance of the item(s) funded pursuant to this contract. If after such notification additional funds are not allotted by the date identified in the Contractor's notification, or by an agreed upon substitute date, the Contracting Officer will terminate any item(s) for which additional funds have not been allotted, pursuant to the terms of this contract authorizing termination for the convenience of the Government. Failure to make the notification required by this paragraph, whether for reasons within or beyond the Contractor's control, will not increase the maximum amount payable to the Contractor under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Government may at any time prior to termination allot additional funds for the performance of the item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The termination provisions of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this clause do not limit the rights of the Government under the clause entitled “Default” or “Termination for Cause.” The provisions of this clause are limited to the work and allotment of funds for the item(s) set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. This clause no longer applies once the contract is fully funded.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Nothing in this clause affects the right of the Government to terminate this contract pursuant to the Government's termination for convenience terms set forth in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) Nothing in this clause shall be construed as authorization of voluntary services whose acceptance is otherwise prohibited under 31 U.S.C. 1342.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) The parties contemplate that the Government will allot funds to this contract from time to time as the need arises and as funds become available. There is no fixed schedule for providing additional funds.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
