<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1052_222_70_T48_5043413118">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1052.222-70</ph> Minority and Women Inclusion.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1022.7000, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Minority and Women Inclusion (JAN 2016)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contractor confirms its commitment to equal opportunity in employment and contracting. To implement this commitment, the Contractor shall ensure, to the maximum extent possible consistent with applicable law, the fair inclusion of minorities and women in its workforce. The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause in all subcontracts awarded under this contract whose dollar value exceeds $150,000. Within ten business days of a written request from the Contracting Officer, or such longer time as the Contracting Officer determines, and without any additional consideration required from the Agency, the Contractor shall provide documentation, satisfactory to the Agency, of the actions it (and as applicable, its subcontractors) has undertaken to demonstrate its good faith effort to comply with the aforementioned provisions. For purposes of this contract, “good faith effort” may include actions by the Contractor intended to identify and, if present, remove barriers to minority and women employment or expansion of employment opportunities for minorities and women within its workforce. Efforts to remove such barriers may include, but are not limited to, recruiting minorities and women, providing job-related training, or other activity that could lead to those results.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The documentation requested by the Contracting Officer to demonstrate “good faith effort” may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The total number of Contractor's employees, and the number of minority and women employees, by race, ethnicity, and gender (<i>e.g.,</i> an EEO-1);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) A list of subcontract awards under the contract that includes: Dollar amount, date of award, and subcontractor's race, ethnicity, and/or gender ownership status;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Information similar to that required in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause, with respect to each subcontractor; and/or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Contractor's plan to ensure that minorities and women have appropriate opportunities to enter and advance within its workforce, including outreach efforts.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Consistent with Section 342(c)(3) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203) (Dodd-Frank Act), a failure to demonstrate to the Director of the Agency's Office of Minority and Women Inclusion such good faith efforts to include minorities and women in the Contractor's workforce (and as applicable, the workforce of its subcontractors), may result in termination of the contract for default, other contractual remedies, or referral to the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP). Compliance with this clause does not, however, necessarily satisfy the requirements of Executive Order 11246, as amended, nor does it preclude OFCCP compliance evaluations and/or enforcement actions undertaken pursuant to that Executive Order.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) For purposes of this clause, the terms “minority,” “minority-owned business,” and “women-owned business” shall have the meanings set forth in Section 342(g) of the Dodd-Frank Act.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
