<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1819_7212_T48_6041917517">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1819.7212</ph> Reporting requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Mentors must report on the progress made under active mentor-protégé agreements semiannually throughout the term of the agreement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Reports are due 30 days after the end of each six-month period of performance commencing with the start of the agreement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Each semiannual report must include the following data on performance under the mentor-protégé agreement:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Expenditures by the mentor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The number and dollar value of subcontracts awarded to the protégé.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Description of developmental assistance provided, including milestones achieved.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Impact of the agreement in terms of capabilities enhanced, certifications received, and/or technology transferred.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Semiannually, the protégé must provide an independently developed progress report using the semiannual report template, on the progress made during the prior six months by the protégé in employment, revenues, and participation in NASA contracts during each year of the Program participation term. The Protégé must also provide an additional post-agreement report for each of the two years following the expiration of the Program participation term.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The protégé semiannual report required by paragraph (d) must be submitted separately from the Mentor's semiannual report submission.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) Reports for all agreements must be submitted to the NASA OSBP Mentor-Protégé Program Manager, the mentor's cognizant administrative contracting officer, and their cognizant center small business specialist.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) Templates for the semiannual report and the Post-Agreement report and guidance for their submission are available at: <i>http://www.osbp.nasa.gov.</i> 
                                 </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
