<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_232_77_T48_60423441186">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.232-77</ph> Limitation of funds (fixed-price contract).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1832_705_270_T48_6042026513"
                  href="Section_1832_705_270_T48_6042026513.dita#Section_1832_705_270_T48_6042026513">1832.705-270</xref>(a), insert the following clause. Contracting officers are authorized, in appropriate cases, to revise clause paragraphs (a), (b), and (g) to specify the work required under the contract, in lieu of using contract item numbers. The 60-day period may be varied from 30 to 90 days, and the 75 percent from 75 to 85 percent: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Limitation of Funds (Fixed-Price Contract) (MAR 1989)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Of the total price of items __ through __, the sum of $__ is presently available for payment and allotted to this contract. It is anticipated that from time to time additional funds will be allocated to the contract in accordance with the following schedule, until the total price of said items is allotted: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Schedule for Allotment of Funds 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">Date    Amounts 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor agrees to perform or have performed work on the items specified in paragraph (a) of this clause up to the point at which, if this contract is terminated pursuant to the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause of this contract, the total amount payable by the Government (including amounts payable for subcontracts and settlement costs) pursuant to paragraphs (f) and (g) of that clause would, in the exercise of reasonable judgment by the Contractor, approximate the total amount at the time allotted to the contract. The Contractor is not obligated to continue performance of the work beyond that point. The Government is not obligated in any event to pay or reimburse the Contractor more than the amount from time to time allotted to the contract, anything to the contrary in the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause notwithstanding. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			It is contemplated that funds presently allotted to this contract will cover the work to be performed until __. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If funds allotted are considered by the Contractor to be inadequate to cover the work to be performed until that date, or an agreed date substituted for it, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing when within the next 60 days the work will reach a point at which, if the contract is terminated pursuant to the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause of this contract, the total amount payable by the Government (including amounts payable for subcontracts and settlement costs) pursuant to paragraphs (f) and (g) of that clause will approximate 75 percent of the total amount then allotted to the contract. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(3) 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The notice shall state the estimated date when the point referred to in paragraph (c)(2) of this clause will be reached and the estimated amount of additional funds required to continue performance to the date specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, or an agreed date substituted for it. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The Contractor shall, 60 days in advance of the date specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, or an agreed date substituted for it, advise the Contracting Officer in writing as to the estimated amount of additional funds required for the timely performance of the contract for a further period as may be specified in the contract or otherwise agreed to by the parties. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) If, after the notification referred to in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this clause, additional funds are not allotted by the date specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, or an agreed date substituted for it, the Contracting Officer shall, upon the Contractor's written request, terminate this contract on that date or on the date set forth in the request, whichever is later, pursuant to the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) When additional funds are allotted from time to time for continued performance of the work under this contract, the parties shall agree on the applicable period of contract performance to be covered by these funds. The provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause shall apply to these additional allotted funds and the substituted date pertaining to them, and the contract shall be modified accordingly. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) If, solely by reason of the Government's failure to allot additional funds in amounts sufficient for the timely performance of this contract, the Contractor incurs additional costs or is delayed in the performance of the work under this contract, and if additional funds are allotted, an equitable adjustment shall be made in the price or prices (including appropriate target, billing, and ceiling prices where applicable) of the items to be delivered, or in the time of delivery, or both. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Government may at any time before termination, and, with the consent of the Contractor, after notice of termination, allot additional funds for this contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The provisions of this clause with respect to termination shall in no way be deemed to limit the rights of the Government under the default clause of this contract. The provisions of this Limitation of Funds clause are limited to the work on and allotment of funds for the items set forth in paragraph (a). This clause shall become inoperative upon the allotment of funds for the total price of said work except for rights and obligations then existing under this clause. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) Nothing in this clause shall affect the right of the Government to terminate this contract pursuant to the Termination for Convenience of the Government clause of this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
