<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_227_85_T48_60423441172">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.227-85</ph> Invention Reporting and Rights - Foreign.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1827_303_T48_6042022113"
                  href="Section_1827_303_T48_6042022113.dita#Section_1827_303_T48_6042022113">1827.303</xref>(e)(1), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Invention Reporting and Rights - Foreign (APR 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) As used in this clause, the term “invention” means any invention, discovery or improvement, and “made” means the conception or first actual demonstration that the invention is useful and operable.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall report promptly to the Contracting Officer each invention made in the performance of work under this contract. The report of each such invention shall:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Identify the inventor(s) by full name; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Include such full and complete technical information concerning the invention as is necessary to enable an understanding of the nature and operation thereof.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor hereby grants to the Government of the United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration the full right, title and interest in and to each such invention throughout the world, except for the foreign country in which this contract is to be performed. As to such foreign country, Contractor hereby grants to the Government of the United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration an irrevocable, nontransferable, nonexclusive, royalty-free license to practice each such invention by or on behalf of the United States of America or any foreign government pursuant to any treaty or agreement with the United States of America, provided that Contractor within a reasonable time files a patent application in that foreign country for each such invention. Where Contractor does not elect to file such patent application for any such invention in that foreign country, full right, title and interest in and to such invention in that foreign country shall reside in the Government of the United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor agrees to execute or to secure the execution of such legal instruments as may be necessary to confirm and to protect the rights granted by paragraph (c) of this clause, including papers incident to the filing and prosecution of patent applications.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Upon completion of the contract work, and prior to final payment, Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer a final report listing all inventions required to be reported under this contract or certifying that no such inventions have been made.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) In each subcontract, the Contractor awards under this contract where the performance of research, experimental design, engineering, or developmental work is contemplated, the Contractor shall include this clause (suitably modified to substitute the subcontractor in place of the Contractor) and the name and address of the Contracting Officer.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
