<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_245_73_T48_604234411120">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.245-73</ph> Financial reporting of NASA property in the custody of contractors.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112"
                  href="Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112.dita#Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112">1845.107-70</xref>(d), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Financial Reporting of NASA Property in the Custody of Contractors (JAN 2017)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor shall submit annually a NASA Form (NF) 1018, NASA Property in the Custody of Contractors, in accordance with this clause, the instructions on the form and NFS subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_1845_71_T48_60422386"
                  href="Subpart_1845_71_T48_60422386.dita#Subpart_1845_71_T48_60422386">1845.71</xref>, and any supplemental instructions for the current reporting period issued by NASA.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Subcontractor use of NF 1018 is not required by this clause; however, the Contractor shall include data on property in the possession of subcontractors in the annual NF 1018.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor shall mail the original signed NF 1018 directly to the cognizant NASA Center Industrial Property Officer and a copy to the cognizant NASA Center Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Finance, unless the Contractor uses the NF 1018 Electronic Submission System (NESS) for report preparation and submission.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) One copy shall be submitted (through the Department of Defense (DOD) Property Administrator if contract administration has been delegated to DOD) to the following address: [Insert name and address of appropriate NASA Center office.], unless the Contractor uses the NF 1018 Electronic Submission System (NESS) for report preparation and submission.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The annual reporting period shall be from October 1 of each year through September 30 of the following year. The report shall be submitted in time to be received by October 31st. The information contained in these reports is entered into the NASA accounting system to reflect current asset values for agency financial statement purposes. Therefore, it is essential that required reports be received no later than October 31st.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Some activity may be estimated for the month in which the report is submitted, if necessary, to ensure the NF 1018 is received when due. However, contractors' procedures must document the process for developing these estimates based on planned activity such as planned purchases or NASA Form 533 (NF 533) Contractor Financial Management Report cost estimates. It should be supported and documented by historical experience or other corroborating evidence, and be retained in accordance with FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention. Contractors shall validate the reasonableness of the estimates and associated methodology by comparing them to the actual activity once that data is available, and adjust them accordingly. In addition, differences between the estimated cost and actual cost must be adjusted during the next reporting period. Contractors shall have formal policies and procedures, which address the validation of NF 1018 data, including data from subcontractors, and the identification and timely reporting of errors. The objective of this validation is to ensure that information reported is accurate and in compliance with the NASA FAR Supplement. If errors are discovered on NF 1018 after submission, the contractor shall contact the cognizant NASA Center Industrial Property Officer (IPO) within 30 days after discovery of the error to discuss corrective action.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) In addition to an annual report, if at any time during performance of the contract, NASA-owned property in the custody of the contractor has a value of $10 million or more, the contractor shall also submit a report no later than the 21st of each month in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Contracting Officer may, in NASA's interest, withhold payment until a reserve not exceeding $25,000 or 5 percent of the amount of the contract, whichever is less, has been set aside, if the Contractor fails to submit annual NF 1018 reports in accordance with NFS subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_1845_71_T48_60422386"
                  href="Subpart_1845_71_T48_60422386.dita#Subpart_1845_71_T48_60422386">1845.71</xref>, any monthly report in accordance with (c)(3) of this clause, and any supplemental instructions for the current reporting period issued by NASA. Such reserve shall be withheld until the Contracting Officer has determined that NASA has received the required reports. The withholding of any amount or the subsequent payment thereof shall not be construed as a waiver of any Government right.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) A final report shall be submitted within 30 days after disposition of all property subject to reporting when the contract performance period is complete in accordance with paragraph (b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			through (3) of this clause.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
