<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1846_672_4_T48_60422394112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1846.672-4</ph> Correction instructions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">When, because of errors of omissions, it is necessary to correct the MIRR after distribution, it shall be revised by correcting the original master and distributing the corrected form. The corrections shall be made as follows: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Circle the error and place the corrected information in the same block. If space is limited, enter the corrected information in Block 16, referencing the error page and block. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) When corrections are made to Blocks 15 and 17, enter the words <i>“CORRECTIONS HAVE BEEN VERIFIED”</i> on page 1. The authorized Government representative shall date and sign immediately below the statement. This verification statement and signature are not required for other corrections. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) MIRRs shall not be corrected for Block 19 and 20 entries. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Clearly mark pages of the MIRR requiring correction with the words <i>“CORRECTED COPY”,</i> avoiding obliteration of any other entries. Even though corrections are made on continuation sheets only, also mark page 1 <i>“CORRECTED COPY”.</i>
                                 </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Page 1 and only those continuation pages marked <i>“CORRECTED COPY”</i> shall be distributed to the initial distribution. A complete MIRR with corrections shall be distributed to new addressee(s) created by error corrections. 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
