<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2909_406_3_T48_701210216">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2909.406-3</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Investigation and referral.</i> Whenever a DOL employee knows a cause for debarment, as listed in FAR 9.406-2, the appropriate HCA affected must be notified. The contracting officer must consult with the Office of the Solicitor and the Office of the Inspector General, as appropriate, and submit a formal recommendation documenting the cause for debarment to the Senior Procurement Executive.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Notice of proposal to debar.</i> Based upon review of the recommendation to debar and consultation with the Office of the Solicitor and Office of the Inspector General, as appropriate, the Senior Procurement Executive must initiate proposed debarment by taking the actions listed in FAR 9.406-3(c) and advising the contractor of DOL's rules under <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_2909_4_T48_7012102"
                  href="Subpart_2909_4_T48_7012102.dita#Subpart_2909_4_T48_7012102">2909.4</xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Fact-finding proceedings.</i> For actions listed under FAR 9.406-3(b)(2), the Senior Procurement Executive must afford the contractor the opportunity to appear at an informal fact-finding proceeding as required by FAR 9.406-3(b)(2)(i). The proceeding must be conducted by the Office of Administrative Law Judges and must be held at a date and location reasonably convenient to the parties concerned. Subject to the provisions of 29 CFR part 18, entitled “Rules Of Practice And Procedure For Administrative Hearings Before The Office Of Administrative Law Judges”, the contractor and any specifically named affiliates, may be represented by counsel or any duly authorized representative. Either party may call witnesses. The proceedings must be conducted expeditiously and in such a manner that each party will have a full opportunity to present all information considered pertinent to the proposed debarment. A transcript of the proceedings must be made available to the contractor under the conditions in FAR 9.406-3(b)(2)(ii).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Decision and notice.</i> The Senior Procurement Executive shall make a decision on imposing debarment in accordance with the procedures in FAR 9.406-3(d), findings of fact of the Administrative Law Judge, and the conditions in FAR 9.406-4 and 9.406-5. Notice of the decision must be provided to the contractor and any affiliates involved in accordance with the procedures in FAR 9.406-3(e).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
