<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e5941" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3052.209-75</ph> Prohibited financial interests for lead system integrators.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As prescribed in (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.570-4(b), use the following clause:
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p outputclass="HD1">Prohibited Financial Interests for Lead System Integrators (JUL 2010)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this clause - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) “Direct financial interest,” for the purpose of this clause and contract, and subject to exceptions set forth 6 U.S.C. 396(b) as implemented, means:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Developing or constructing any individual system or element of any system of systems for which the Contractor is the lead system integrator;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Owning or being in a position to exert corporate control over a subcontractor at any level under the prime contract;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Owning, or being in a position to exert corporate control over an entity that either - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(A) Is a subcontractor at any level under the prime contract, or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(B) Owns or is in a position to control another entity that is a subcontractor at any level under the prime contract; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Participating or sharing in the profits of another firm's development or construction of any individual system or element of any system of systems for which the Contractor is the lead system integrator or agreeing to participate in the profits of the firm from such development or construction.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) “Lead system integrator” includes “lead system integrator with system responsibility” and “lead system integrator without system responsibility.”
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) “Lead system integrator with system responsibility” means a prime contractor for the development or production of a major system, if the prime contractor is not expected at the time of award to perform a substantial portion of the work on the system and the major subsystems.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) “Lead system integrator without system responsibility” means a prime contractor under a contract for the procurement of services, the primary purpose of which is to perform acquisition functions closely associated with inherently governmental functions (see section 7.503(d) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation) with regard to the development or production of a major system.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) The phrase “substantial portion of the work,” as used in the definition of “lead system integrator with system responsibility,” may relate to the dollar value of the effort or to the criticality of the effort performed.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Limitations.</i> The Contracting Officer has determined that the Contractor meets the definition of lead system integrator with [ ] without [ ] system responsibility. Unless an exception is granted, the Contractor shall not have any direct financial interest in the development or construction of any individual system or element of any system of systems while performing lead system integrator functions in the acquisition of a major system by the Department of Homeland Security under this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Agreement.</i> The Contractor agrees that during performance of this contract it will not acquire any direct financial interest as described in paragraph (b) of this clause, or, if it does acquire or plan to acquire such interest, it will immediately notify the Contracting Officer. The Contractor further agrees to provide to the Contracting Officer all relevant information regarding the change in financial interests so that the Contracting Officer can determine whether an exception applies or whether the Contractor will be allowed to continue performance on this contract. If an organizational conflict of interest in the performance of this contract that is attributable to the Contractor's direct financial interest cannot be avoided, eliminated, or mitigated to the Contracting Officer's satisfaction, the Contracting Officer may terminate this contract for default or may take other remedial measures as appropriate in the Contracting Officer's sole discretion.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) Notwithstanding any other clause of this contract, if the Contracting Officer determines that the Contractor misrepresented its financial interests at the time of award or has violated the agreement in paragraph (c) of this clause, the Government may terminate this contract for default or may take other remedial measures as appropriate in the Contracting Officer's sole discretion.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) This clause implements the requirements of 6 U.S.C. 396, as added by Section 6405 of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, And Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007 (Pub. L. 110-28).</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[75 FR 41100, July 15, 2010]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
