<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e7130" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3052.219-71</ph> DHS mentor-protégé program.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As prescribed in (HSAR) 48 CFR 3019.708-70(b), insert the following clause:
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p outputclass="HD1">DHS Mentor-Protégé Program (JUN 2006)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) Large businesses are encouraged to participate in the DHS Mentor-Protégé program for the purpose of providing developmental assistance to eligible small business protégé entities to enhance their capabilities and increase their participation in DHS contracts.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) The program consists of:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Mentor firms, which are large prime contractors capable of providing developmental assistance;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Protégé firms, which are small businesses, veteran-owned small businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses, HUBZone small businesses, small disadvantaged businesses, and women-owned small business concerns; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) Mentor-Protégé agreements, approved by the DHS OSDBU.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) Mentor participation in the program means providing business developmental assistance to aid Protégés in developing the requisite expertise to effectively compete for and successfully perform DHS contracts and subcontracts.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) Large business prime contractors serving as mentors in the DHS Mentor-Protégé program are eligible for a post-award incentive for subcontracting plan credit. The mentor may receive credit for costs it incurs to provide assistance to a protégé firm. The mentor may use this additional credit towards attaining its subcontracting plan participation goal under the same or another DHS contract. The amount of credit given to a mentor firm for these protégé developmental assistance costs shall be calculated on a dollar for dollar basis and reported in the Summary Subcontract Report via the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) at <i>http://www.esrs.gov.</i> For example, a mentor/large business prime contractor would report a $10,000 subcontract to the protégé/small business subcontractor and $5,000 of developmental assistance to the protégé/small business subcontractor as $15,000. The Mentor and Protégé will submit a signed joint statement agreeing on the dollar value of the developmental assistance and the Summary Subcontract Report.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) Contractors interested in participating in the program are encouraged to contact the DHS OSDBU for more information.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[68 FR 67871, Dec. 4, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 25775, May 2, 2006]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
