<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e5695" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3052.209-71</ph> Reserve Officer Training Corps and military recruiting on campus.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As prescribed in (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.470-4, use the following clause:
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p outputclass="HD1">Reserve Officer Training Corps and Military Recruiting on Campus (DEC 2003)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> 
                                    <i>Institution of higher education,</i> as used in this clause, means an institution that meets the requirements of 20 U.S.C. 1001 and includes all subelements of such an institution.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Limitation on contract award.</i> Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this clause, an institution of higher education is ineligible for contract award if the Secretary of Defense determines that the institution has a policy or practice (regardless of when implemented) that prohibits or in effect prevents - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Secretary of a military department from maintaining, establishing, or operating a unit of the Senior Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) (in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 654 and other applicable Federal laws) at that institution;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) A student at that institution from enrolling in a unit of the Senior ROTC at another institution of higher education;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Secretary of a military department or the Secretary of Homeland Security from gaining entry to campuses, or access to students (who are 17 years of age or older) on campuses, for purposes of military recruiting; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) Military recruiters from accessing, for purposes of military recruiting, the following information pertaining to students (who are 17 years of age or older) enrolled at that institution:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Name.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Address.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Telephone number.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Date and place of birth.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(v) Educational level.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Academic major.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Degrees received.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(viii) Most recent educational institution enrollment.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Exception.</i> The limitation in paragraph (b) of this clause does not apply to an institution of higher education if the Secretary of Defense determines that - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The institution has ceased the policy or practice described in paragraph (b) of this clause; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The institution has a long-standing policy of pacifism based on historical religious affiliation.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Agreement.</i> The Contractor represents that it does not now have, and agrees that during performance of this contract it will not adopt, any policy or practice described in paragraph (b) of this clause, unless the Secretary of Defense has granted an exception in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) Notwithstanding any other clause of this contract, if the Secretary of Defense determines that the Contractor misrepresented its policies and practices at the time of contract award or has violated the agreement in paragraph (d) of this clause - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Contractor will be ineligible for further payments under this and any other contracts with the Department of Homeland Security; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Government will terminate this contract for default for the Contractor's material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of award.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3">(End of clause) 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
