<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e1908" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3009.108-7002</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As used in this subpart - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Expanded Affiliated Group</i> means an affiliated group as defined in section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (without regard to section 1504(b) of such Code), except that section 1504 of such Code shall be applied by substituting ‘more than 50 percent’ for ‘at least 80 percent’ each place it appears.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Foreign Incorporated Entity</i> means any entity which is, or but for section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395(b), would be, treated as a foreign corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Inverted Domestic Corporation.</i> A foreign incorporated entity shall be treated as an inverted domestic corporation if, pursuant to a plan (or a series of related transactions) - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(1) The entity completes the direct or indirect acquisition of substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by a domestic corporation or substantially all of the properties constituting a trade or business of a domestic partnership; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) After the acquisition at least 80 percent of the stock (by vote or value) of the entity is held - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(i) In the case of an acquisition with respect to a domestic corporation, by former shareholders of the domestic corporation by reason of holding stock in the domestic corporation; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) In the case of an acquisition with respect to a domestic partnership, by former partners of the domestic partnership by reason of holding a capital or profits interest in the domestic partnership; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) The expanded affiliated group which after the acquisition includes the entity does not have substantial business activities in the foreign country in which or under the law of which the entity is created or organized when compared to the total business activities of such expanded affiliated group.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Person, domestic, and foreign</i> have the meanings given such terms by paragraphs (1), (4), and (5) of section 7701(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, respectively.
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[68 FR 67871, Dec. 4, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 25769, May 2, 2006. Redesignated at 74 FR 58856, Nov. 16, 2009, 74 FR 66584, Dec. 16, 2009]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
