<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e256" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3001.104</ph> Applicability.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following order of precedence applies to resolve any acquisition regulation or procedural inconsistency found within HSAR or the Homeland Security Acquisition Manual (HSAM):
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Statute;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) FAR or other applicable regulation or Executive Order;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) HSAR;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Directives; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) HSAM.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) exception to this regulation is authorized by the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001 (ATSA) (section 101(a) of Public Law 107-71, as implemented at section 114(o) of title 49) for contracts awarded by TSA pursuant to this ATSA authority. The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008, Public Law 110-161, Division E, Title V, section 568 eliminates ATSA section 114(o) effective June 23, 2008. Accordingly, TSA acquisitions initiated after June 22, 2008 are subject to 48 CFR Chapters 1 and 30.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contracts involving Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs) must contain suitable dispute provisions and may provide for appellate dispute jurisdiction in the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals (CBCA). However, the contract must not attempt to confer court jurisdiction that does not otherwise exist.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The FAR and HSAR may be followed, where feasible, for:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) No-cost contracts;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Concession contracts; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Contracts on behalf of NAFIs entered into by appropriated fund contracting officers.
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[68 FR 67871, Dec. 4, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 25767, May 2, 2006; 72 FR 1297, Jan. 11, 2007; 73 FR 30318, May 27, 2008]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
