<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e3164" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3017.9000</ph> Clauses (USCG).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">For the U.S. Coast Guard, the following clauses are to be used in specific solicitations and contracts:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The clauses in (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-90 through (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-93 and (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-95 through (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-99 shall be included and clause (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-94 may be included in sealed bid fixed-price solicitations and contracts for vessel repair, alteration, or conversion which are to be performed within the United States, its possessions, or Puerto Rico. The contracting officer may, in whole or in part (such as after incidents), increase the dollar amounts in the clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-95(b)(6) and (c)(1) consistent with contract size, inflation, and other circumstances.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Unless inappropriate, the clauses in (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-90 through (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-93 and (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-95 through (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-99 should be included and (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-94 may be included in negotiated solicitations and contracts to be performed outside the United States. The contracting officer may, in whole or in part (such as after incidents), increase the dollar amounts in the clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-95(b)(6) and (c)(1) consistent with contract size, inflation, and other circumstances.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-100, Guarantee, shall be used where general guarantee provisions are deemed desirable by the contracting officer.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) When inspection and acceptance tests will afford full protection to the Government in ascertaining conformance to specifications and the absence of defects and deficiencies, no guarantee clause for that purpose shall be included in the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The customary guarantee period, to be inserted in the first sentence of the clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-100, Guarantee, is 60 days. However, in certain instances, the contracting officer may desire to include a clause in a contract for a guarantee period of more than 60 days. In such instances:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Where, after full inquiry, it has been determined that such longer guarantee period will not involve increased costs, a longer guarantee period may be substituted by the contracting officer for the usual 60 days; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Where the full inquiry discloses that such longer guarantee period will involve, or is reasonably expected to involve, increased costs, such facts and the reasons for the need for such longer period shall be set forth in letter form to the COCO, requesting approval for use of guarantee period in excess of 60 days. Upon approval, the longer period may be inserted by the contracting officer in the first sentence of the clause at (HSAR) 48 CFR 3052.217-100, Guarantee.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
