<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e1202" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3003.203</ph> Reporting suspected violations of the Gratuities clause.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Suspected violations shall be reported to the contracting officer responsible for the acquisition (or the COCO if the contracting officer is suspected of the violation). The contracting officer (or the COCO) shall obtain from the person reporting the violation, and any witnesses to the violation, the following information:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The date, time, and place of the suspected violation;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The name and title (if known) of the individual(s) involved in the violation; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The details of the violation (e.g., the gratuity offered or intended) to obtain a contract or favorable treatment under a contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The person reporting the violation and witnesses (if any) shall be requested to sign and date the information certifying that the information furnished is true and correct.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting officer shall submit the report to the COCO (unless the alleged violation was directly reported to the COCO) and the Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA) for further action. The COCO and HCA will determine, with the advice of the Component legal counsel, whether the case warrants submission to the OIG, or other investigatory organization.
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[68 FR 67871, Dec. 4, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 25768, May 2, 2006; 71 FR 48801, Aug. 22, 2006]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
