<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <topic id="d1e478">
            <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5201.690 Requirements to be met
before entering into contracts.</title>
            <body>
               <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contract actions must be subject
to review prior to award. The formal review process is conducted
and documented through the use of the business clearance. The purpose
of the business clearance is to demonstrate that the proposed decision
on a contract action conforms to law, regulation, good business
practices and DOD/DON acquisition policy.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(b) HCAs shall establish written procedures
defining the types of contract actions that will require a business
clearance, the applicable dollar thresholds, and the review and
approval process. At a minimum, HCA procedures shall address business clearance
requirements for the actions listed below. HCAs should expand this
list, as appropriate.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) Contracts (including task and delivery
orders against indefinite-delivery contracts, basic ordering agreements,
blanket purchase agreements, and other contract tools).</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contract modifications not within the
scope or under the terms of an existing contract.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(3) Undefinitized contract actions (see
DFARS Subpart 217.74.)</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(4) Modifications and changes issued pursuant
to the Changes, Disputes, Economic Price</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal">Adjustment, Fair Labor Standards Act and
Service Contract Labor Standards statute—Price Adjustment, Government
Delay of Work, Government Property, Incentive Price Revision, Over
and Above Work, Stop-Work Order, Termination, and Value Engineering
contract clauses.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(5) Settlement of claims or requests for
equitable adjustment not addressed under paragraph (4) above.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(6) Retroactive pricing after completion,
including final price determination.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(7) Definitization of any undefinitized
or unpriced contract action, including change orders, Engineering
Change Proposals, Value Engineering Change proposals, and Over and
Above Work.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(8) Advance agreements on special or unusual
cost items (see 5231.109.)</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(9) Actions that result in the establishment,
modification or rescission of a guarantee of performance on a government
contract by a third party.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(c) The following contract actions do not
require a business clearance, but the file must include the rationale
for award sufficiently documented in a format prescribed by HCA
procedures:</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(1) Contract actions awarded using simplified
acquisition procedures.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(2) Task orders or delivery orders issued
under FAR Subpart 8.4, Federal Supply Schedules.</p>
               <p outputclass="List2">(3) Task orders or delivery orders issued
on a firm-fixed price basis against indefinite-delivery type contracts
for:</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(i) supplies for which unit prices are
established in the contract; or</p>
               <p outputclass="List3">(ii) services for which unit prices are
established in the contract for specific tasks to be performed and
where a statement of work/statement of objectives is not required.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(d) HCAs must establish business clearance
approval levels at least one level above the individual responsible
for conducting the negotiations; or, if negotiations are not required,
for handling the proposed contract action. The degree and complexity of
documentation required, and approval levels/thresholds, for various
actions should be governed by the magnitude and complexity of the
action being reviewed.</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(e) Annex 2, Business Clearance Memorandum,
contains the required content and recommended format to document
decisions on contract actions that are subject to business clearance
requirements. If an activity plans to use a format other than Annex
2, the activity shall notify DASN(P) by submitting its HCA approved
alternate format by email at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink">RDAJ&amp;As.fct@navy.mil</ph> with
the subject “[Activity Name] NMCARS 5201.690 – Alternate Business
Clearance Memorandum Format.”</p>
               <p outputclass="List1">(f) Contracting Officers shall address
Theater Business Clearance (TBC) requirements when soliciting or
awarding contracts or performing contract administration. Solicitations
and contracts subject to TBC are those valued at &gt;$150K and with performance
&gt; 30 days that require performance or delivery, including construction
contracts, with the place of performance in Afghanistan.</p>
               <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            </body>
         </topic>
</dita>
