<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <topic id="d1e11079">
         <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> Section 1. Requirements Development
and Management</title>
         <body>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.1 Statement of Need. Describe the requirement,
its source, the outcomes to be achieved and, if performance based,
the metrics to measure the outcomes. In your description of the
product or service, explain the choice of product or service description code
ensuring it aligns with the DOD taxonomy associated with the acquisition
of services, supplies and equipment. (See USD(ATL) memorandum entitled,
“Taxonomy for the Acquisition of Services and Supplies &amp;</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal">Equipment” dated August 27, 2012.)</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.2 Historical Summary. Identify how the
requirement was previously satisfied or identify it as a new requirement.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.3 Market Research. Discuss how market
research was performed and the results.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.4 Bundling/Consolidation. Discuss the
impact of any bundling or consolidation that might affect small
business participation in the acquisition. When the proposed acquisition
strategy involves bundling, identify the incumbent contractors and
contracts affected by the bundling.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.5 Technical Data. Discuss the requirements
for contractor data (including repurchase data) and data rights,
their estimated cost, and the use to be made of the data. Explain
how the use of the technical data and data rights will be used to
sustain competition.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         </body>
      </topic>
</dita>
