<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <topic id="d1e2138">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5215.406-1 Prenegotiation objectives.</title>
               <body>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b)When the Director, Defense Contract
Audit Agency (DCAA) elevates an audit disagreement to DPC pertaining
to a Navy contract(s), the CCO shall provide notification to DASN(P)
by email at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink">RDAJ&amp;As.fct@navy.mil</ph> with
the subject “[Activity Name] PGI 215.406-1 - DCAA Audit Disagreement.”
The email should provide relevant details of the disagreement and
the contracting officer’s position in the body of the email or attachments.</p>
                  <p id="i1024564" outputclass="Normal"/>
                  <p outputclass="Normal">
                     <ph outputclass="Heading4Char">5215.406-90
Business clearance.</ph>
                  </p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) Generally, “pre-negotiation” and “post-negotiation”
business clearances are required for each negotiated contract action. Business
clearance memoranda (BCM) document the basis for approval of the
action, and the basis for determination that the negotiated prices
are fair and reasonable. (b) For competitive acquisitions, the pre-BCM
presents a chronology of the acquisition up to the determination
of competitive range and provides the basis for the competitive
range decision. The post-BCM continues the chronology to contract
award and provides the basis for the award decision. If award is
made without discussions, on the basis of original offers, the pre-
and post-BCM may be combined. (c) For contracts and modifications
requiring price negotiations, the pre-BCM demonstrates to the approving
official that the Government is ready to enter into negotiations.
It addresses salient legal and regulatory requirements and sets
forth the Government’s negotiation objectives. It generally includes
a discussion of the bases for the contractor’s proposal and the
Government objective, DCAA and other Government pricing recommendations
and the analysis done and conclusions reached by the negotiating team.
The post-BCM describes the results of negotiations, and documents
the basis for determining the negotiated price is fair and reasonable.
Using the objective in the pre-BCM as a base, it addresses the reasons
for any difference between the initial objective and the final negotiated
amount. The pre- and post- BCM together constitute the documentation required
by FAR 15.406-3 and DFARS 215.406-3 and should provide all the information
required therein. In particular, the BCMs should document the use
made of field pricing assistance and describe the extent of Government
reliance on the contractor’s certified cost or pricing data, if
obtained, in sufficient detail to provide a basis for Government
recovery in the event any of the data proves inaccurate, incomplete
or not current.</p>
                  <p id="i1024574" outputclass="List1">(d) Annex 2, Business Clearance
Memorandum, contains the required content and recommended format
to document decisions on contract actions that are subject to business
clearance requirements. If an activity plans to use a format other
than Annex 2, the activity shall notify DASN(P) by submitting its
HCA approved alternate format by email at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink">RDAJ&amp;As.fct@navy.mil</ph> with
the subject “[Activity Name] NMCARS 5201.690 – Alternate Business
Clearance Memorandum Format.”</p>
               </body>
            </topic>
</dita>
