<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <topic id="d1e9660">
         <title outputclass="Heading3">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> Section 1: Acquisition Background
and Objectives.</title>
         <body>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.1 Statement of need. Introduce the plan
by a brief statement of need. Include status of any applicable Acquisition
Strategy, Acquisition Decision Memorandum, Defense Acquisition Board,
and/or any other internal service reviews.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.2 Historical Summary. Summarize the
technical and contractual history of the program. Include contracts
awarded for major end items or services for the past five years,
contract number, contractor, contract type, supply/service description
(title only), quantities, period of performance, historical or estimated
contract value and whether a sole source or competitive contract
award.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.3 Technical Data.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p id="i1056995" outputclass="Normal">1.3.1 Define the overall
program objectives, by program phase, for the acquisition of the
technical data, including the major types of data to be acquired.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.3.2 Discuss the requirements for contractor
data (including repurchase data) and data rights, their estimated
cost, and the use to be made of the data. Explain how the use of
the technical data and data rights will be used to sustain competition.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.3.3 Discuss the results of cost effectiveness
analyses of buying contractor data as it relates to achieving the
program’s objectives.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.3.4 Discuss validation of the technical
data package.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.3.5 Where applicable and when considered
a significant element of the acquisition, define how patents and
copyrights will be addressed within the contract.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.4 Budget. Explain how budget estimates
were derived and discuss the schedule for obtaining adequate funds
at the time they are required.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
            <p outputclass="Normal">1.5 Funding. Identify funding to support
the action by fiscal year and appropriation.</p>
            <p outputclass="Normal"/>
         </body>
      </topic>
</dita>
