<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <topic id="d1e3062">
               <title outputclass="Heading4">
         <ph props="autonumber"/> 5225.802-90 Procedures for acquisitions
that can be satisfied only by sources outside the United States.</title>
               <body>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(a) Naval activities having requirements
that can be satisfied only by European sources should forward their
requisitions to Fleet Logistics Center (FLC) Sigonella for procurements
in Southern Europe, the Mediterranean, and Africa; to FLC Sigonella
Detachment Bahrain for procurements in the Middle East; or FLC Sigonella
Detachment London for procurements in Northern Europe, including
the United Kingdom and Iceland. Naval activities having requirements
that can be satisfied only by Asian sources should forward their
requirements to FLC Yokosuka for procurements in Japan or Korea; or
FLC Yokosuka Detachment Singapore for procurements in Asia/Pacific
other than Japan or Korea. This does not relieve activities from
complying with current Balance of Payments directives.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List1">(b) Exceptions.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(1) The following are exceptions to paragraph
(a) above:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(i) Contracts for complete vessels or aircraft.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Contracts for equipment requiring
servicing by representatives of foreign companies.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Contracts within an activity's authorized
purchase authority when material is readily available overseas (outside the
contiguous United States).</p>
                  <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Other specific exceptions as may be
granted by NAVSUPSYSCOM.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contracting Officers utilizing any
of the above exceptions, prior to negotiating with an overseas supplier,
should contact the applicable FLC for assistance and support.</p>
                  <p outputclass="Normal"/>
               </body>
            </topic>
</dita>
