<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_216_73_T48_60638251128">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.216-73</ph> Accelerated task order procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2016_506_70_T48_6063312211"
                  href="Section_2016_506_70_T48_6063312211.dita#Section_2016_506_70_T48_6063312211">2016.506-70</xref>(b), the contracting officer may insert the following clause in applicable solicitations and contracts that contain task order procedures. This clause may be altered to fit the circumstances of the requirement.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Accelerated Task Order Procedures (JAN 1993)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The NRC may require the contractor to begin work before receiving a definitized task order from the contracting officer. Accordingly, when the contracting officer verbally authorizes the work, the contractor shall proceed with performance of the task order subject to the monetary limitation established for the task order by the contracting officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) When this accelerated procedure is employed by the NRC, the contractor agrees to begin promptly negotiating with the contracting officer the terms of the definitive task order and agrees to submit a cost proposal with supporting cost or pricing data. If agreement on a definitized task order is not reached by the target date mutually agreed upon by the contractor and contracting officer, the contracting officer may determine a reasonable price and/or fee in accordance with subpart 15.8 and part 31 of the FAR, subject to contractor appeal as provided in 52.233-1, Disputes. In any event, the contractor shall proceed with completion of the task order subject only to the monetary limitation established by the contracting officer and the terms and conditions of the basic contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
