<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2015.209-70</ph> Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contracting officer shall insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts that are applicable to the requirement:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_70_T48_60638251115"
                  href="Section_2052_215_70_T48_60638251115.dita#Section_2052_215_70_T48_60638251115">2052.215-70</xref>, Key Personnel in applicable solicitations and contracts;
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(2)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116"
                  href="Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116.dita#Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116">2052.215-71</xref>, Project Officer Authority in applicable solicitations and contracts for cost-reimbursement, cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-award-fee, cost sharing, labor-hour or time-and-materials, including task order contracts. This clause and the following alternate clauses are intended for experienced, trained project officers, and may be altered to delete duties where appropriate:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116"
                  href="Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116.dita#Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116">2052.215-71</xref> Alternate 1. For solicitations for issuance of delivery orders for specific products/services;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116"
                  href="Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116.dita#Section_2052_215_71_T48_60638251116">2052.215-71</xref> Alternate 2. For solicitations for firm fixed price contracts, with paragraph (b)(1) of Alternate 1 deleted and the remainder of the clause renumbered.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_72_T48_60638251117"
                  href="Section_2052_215_72_T48_60638251117.dita#Section_2052_215_72_T48_60638251117">2052.215-72</xref>, Timely Receipt of Proposals in all solicitations;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_73_T48_60638251118"
                  href="Section_2052_215_73_T48_60638251118.dita#Section_2052_215_73_T48_60638251118">2052.215-73</xref>, Award Notification and Commitment of Public Funds in all solicitations; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_74_T48_60638251119"
                  href="Section_2052_215_74_T48_60638251119.dita#Section_2052_215_74_T48_60638251119">2052.215-74</xref>, Disposition of Proposals in all solicitations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting officer may insert the following provisions in all solicitations as applicable. These provisions may be altered to fit the circumstances of the requirement. These provisions shall be tailored to assure that all sections of the instructions for the Technical and Management Proposal, or Oral Presentation and Supporting Documentation, reflect a one-to-one relationship to the evaluation criteria:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_75_T48_60638251120"
                  href="Section_2052_215_75_T48_60638251120.dita#Section_2052_215_75_T48_60638251120">2052.215-75</xref>, Proposal Presentation and Format for negotiated procurements for cost type contracts;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_75_T48_60638251120"
                  href="Section_2052_215_75_T48_60638251120.dita#Section_2052_215_75_T48_60638251120">2052.215-75</xref> Alternate 1 may be used for all solicitations for negotiated task order contracts;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Section 2015.215-75 Alternate 2 may be used for all solicitations for negotiated fixed price, labor hour, or time and materials contracts:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_76_T48_60638251121"
                  href="Section_2052_215_76_T48_60638251121.dita#Section_2052_215_76_T48_60638251121">2052.215-76</xref>, PreProposal Conference, in solicitations which include a PreProposal conference. This provision may be altered to fit the circumstances of the requirement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The contracting officer shall insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts as applicable:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_77_T48_60638251122"
                  href="Section_2052_215_77_T48_60638251122.dita#Section_2052_215_77_T48_60638251122">2052.215-77</xref>, Travel Approvals and Reimbursement, must be inserted in cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts which require travel but do not set a specific ceiling amount on that travel. Requests for foreign travel must be submitted to the NRC 30 days in advance of the travel date.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_78_T48_60638251123"
                  href="Section_2052_215_78_T48_60638251123.dita#Section_2052_215_78_T48_60638251123">2052.215-78</xref>, Travel Approvals and Reimbursement - Alternate 1, shall be inserted in cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts which include a ceiling amount on travel. Requests for foreign travel must be submitted to the NRC 30 days in advance of the travel.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contracting officer shall include the following provisions in all solicitations for competitive procurements to describe the relationship of technical considerations to cost considerations. The contracting officer may make appropriate changes to these provisions to accurately reflect other evaluation procedures, such as evaluation of proposals against mandatory criteria and bench marking criteria for Information Technology (IT) procurements:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124"
                  href="Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124.dita#Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124">2052.215-79</xref> Contract Award and Evaluation of Proposals, shall be included in all solicitations where technical merit is more important than cost,
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124"
                  href="Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124.dita#Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124">2052.215-79</xref> Alternate 1 must be included when proposals are to be evaluated on a lowest price, technically acceptable basis.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124"
                  href="Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124.dita#Section_2052_215_79_T48_60638251124">2052.215-79</xref> Alternate 2 shall be included where cost and technical merit are of equal significance.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
