<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_216_72_T48_60638251127">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.216-72</ph> Task order procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2016_506_70_T48_6063312211"
                  href="Section_2016_506_70_T48_6063312211.dita#Section_2016_506_70_T48_6063312211">2016.506-70</xref>(a), the contracting officer may insert the following clause in applicable solicitations and contracts that contain task order procedures. This clause may be altered to fit the circumstances of the requirement.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Task Order Procedures (OCT 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Task order request for proposal. When a requirement within the scope of work for this contract is identified, the contracting officer shall transmit to the contractor a Task Order Request for Proposal (TORFP) which may include the following, as appropriate:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Scope of work/meetings/travel and deliverables;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Reporting requirements;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Period of performance - place of performance;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Applicable special provisions;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Technical skills required; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Estimated level of effort.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Task order technical proposal. By the date specified in the TORFP, the contractor shall deliver to the contracting officer a written or verbal (as specified in the TORFP technical proposal submittal instructions) technical proposal that provides the technical information required by the TORFP.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Cost proposal. The contractor's cost proposal for each task order must be fully supported by cost and pricing data adequate to establish the reasonableness of the proposed amounts. When the contractor's estimated cost for the proposed task order exceeds $100,000 and the period of performance exceeds six months, the contractor may be required to submit a Contractor Spending Plan (CSP) as part of its cost proposal. The TORP indicates if a CSP is required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Task order award. The contractor shall perform all work described in definitized task orders issued by the contracting officer. Definitized task orders include the following:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Statement of work/meetings/travel and deliverables;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Reporting requirements;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Period of performance;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Key personnel;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Applicable special provisions; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Total task order amount including any fixed fee.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
