<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_242_70_T48_60638251134">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.242-70</ph> Resolving differing professional views.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2042_570_1_T48_6063723111"
                  href="Section_2042_570_1_T48_6063723111.dita#Section_2042_570_1_T48_6063723111">2042.570-1</xref>, the contracting officer shall insert the following clause in the body of cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts for professional services, as appropriate. This clause may not be altered by the contracting officer.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Resolving NRC Contractor Differing Professional Views (DPVs) (Date)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission's (NRC) policy is to support the contractor's expression of professional health and safety related concerns associated with the contractor's work for NRC that may differ from a prevailing NRC staff view, disagree with an NRC decision or policy position, or take issue with proposed or established agency practices. An occasion may arise when an NRC contractor, contractor's personnel, or subcontractor personnel believes that a conscientious expression of a competent judgement is required to document such concerns on matters directly associated with its performance of the contract. The NRC's policy is to support these instances as Differing Professional Views (DPVs).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The procedure that will be used provides for the expression and resolution of differing professional views (DPVs) of health and safety related concerns associated with the mission of the agency by NRC contractors, contractor personnel or subcontractor personnel on matters directly associated with its performance of the contract. This procedure may be found in Attachments to this document. The contractor shall provide a copy of the NRC DPV procedure to all of its employees performing under this contract and to all subcontractors who shall, in turn, provide a copy of the procedure to its employees. The prime contractor or subcontractor shall submit all DPV's received but need not endorse them.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
