<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1909_406_3_T48_605266114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1909.406-3</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Investigation and referral.</i> Any officer of the Board who becomes aware of circumstances which may serve as a basis for a debarment, suspension, or ineligibility shall report the circumstances by memorandum to the Board Procurement Executive for consideration of debarment, suspension or ineligibility action. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Decision-making process.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Contractors shall be given the opportunity to submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and arguments in opposition to a proposed debarment or suspension. All rebuttals shall be addressed to the Board Procurement Executive. However, if a response to the proposed debarment or suspension is not received by the Board Procurement Executive within 30 calendar days of receipt of the notice, the debarment or suspension shall become final.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If a contractor, or a representative, desires to present information and arguments in person to the Board Procurement Executive, an oral presentation will be held within 20 calendar days of receipt of the request, unless a longer period of time is requested by the contractor. Hearings will be held before a three-person fact-finding board composed of one member each from the Office of General Counsel and Congressional Liaison, the Bureau of Management, and the Office of Contracts, other than the initiating officer. The fact-finding board shall deliver written findings to the Board Procurement Executive (together with a transcription of the proceedings, if made) within 10 calendar days after the hearing. The findings shall resolve any facts in dispute based on a preponderance of the evidence presented and determine whether a cause for debarment or suspension exists.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Debarring/suspending official's decision.</i> The debarring/suspending official's final decision shall be made in writing in accordance with FAR 9.406-3 and notice of the decision will be given in accordance with FAR 9.406-3. A copy of the notice shall be given to the affected agency component.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
