<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1902_101_T48_605253111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1902.101</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As used throughout this regulation, the following words and terms are used as defined in this subpart unless (a) the context in which they are used clearly requires a different meaning or (b) a different definition is prescribed for a particular part or portion of a part.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Board</i> means the Broadcasting Board of Governors, acting through any of its duty authorized officials.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Board Procurement Executive</i> means the Director, Office of Contracts.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>AR/CO</i> means Authorized Representative of the Contracting Officer (see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1942_202_70_T48_6052911111"
                  href="Section_1942_202_70_T48_6052911111.dita#Section_1942_202_70_T48_6052911111">1942.202-70</xref>).</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contracting activity</i> means the Office of Contracts, which has the responsibility to contract for the acquisition of supplies and services (including construction).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Head of the Board</i> (also called <i>Board head</i>) means the Board Director or Deputy Director; and the term <i>authorized representative</i> means any person, persons or board (other than the contracting officer) authorized to act for the Head of the Board.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Purchasing Activity</i> means an office with one or more Level I or Level II Small Purchases Contracting Officer(s) exercising limited redelegations of contracting officer authority.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>BBG</i> means the Broadcating Board of Governors.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
