<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e1921" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1408.802</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Duplicating</i> is the mass reproduction of materials beyond the capabilities of typical office copiers. Volumes are of sufficient mass quantities up to 5,000 single-page and 25,000 production units in the aggregate of multiple pages. Such duplicating units shall require Departmental approval to be processed through the Department of the Interior Publishing Council (DOIPC).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Copying</i> is distinguished from “duplicating” in that such work is administrative in nature, produced on office copying equipment and produced as necessary, in limited quantities. Volumes typically range from 1 to 500 single-pages to 2,500 production units in the aggregate of multiple pages. This volume standard is referred to as the “500/2500” rule. Reproduction work exceeding the “500/2500” rule is duplicating, and requires a waiver from the nearest servicing GPO office. Employees should consult with their bureau printing officer or the DOIPC representative to secure such a waiver.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The DOIPC has been designated as the Department's liaison with the Joint Committee on Printing and GPO. Requirements for printing and related supplies shall be coordinated with the DOIPC or the designated bureau publications liaison officer in accordance with 314 DM 1.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
