<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e6325" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1452.226-70</ph> Indian Preference.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As prescribed in 1426.7003(a), insert the following clause in solicitations issued and contracts awarded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs except those pursuant to Title I and to Indian Tribes and Indian Organizations under Title II of Public Law 93-638 (25 U.S.C. 450 <i>et seq.</i> and 25 U.S.C. 455 <i>et seq.,</i> respectively); a contracting activity other than the Bureau of Indian Affairs when the contract is entered into pursuant to an act specifically authorizing contracts with Indian organizations, and a contracting activity other than the Bureau of Indian Affairs when the work to be performed is specifically for the benefit of Indians and is in addition to any incidental benefits which might otherwise accrue to the general public.
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p outputclass="HD1">Indian Preference - Department of the Interior (APR 1984)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor agrees to give preferences to Indians who can perform the work required regardless of age (subject to existing laws and regulations), sex, religion, or tribal affiliation for training and employment opportunities under this contract and, to the extent feasible consistent with the efficient performance of this contract, training and employment preferences and opportunities shall be provided to Indians regardless of age (subject to existing laws and regulations), sex, religion, or tribal affiliation who are not fully qualified to perform under this contract. The Contractor also agrees to give preference to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises in the awarding of any subcontracts consistent with the efficient performance of this contract. The Contractor shall maintain such records as are necessary to indicate compliance with this paragraph.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) In connection with the Indian employment preference requirements of this clause, the Contractor shall also provide opportunities for training incident to such employment. Such training shall include on-the-job, classroom, or apprenticeship training which is designed to increase the vocational effectiveness of an Indian employee.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) If the Contractor is unable to fill its training and employment needs after giving full consideration to Indians as required by this clause, those needs may be satisfied by selection of persons other than Indians in accordance with the clause of this contract entitled “Equal Opportunity.”
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) If no Indian organizations or Indian-owned economic enterprises are available for awarding of subcontracts in connection with the work performed under this contract, the Contractor agrees to comply with the provisions of this contract involving utilization of small business concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, or labor surplus area concerns.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) As used in this clause:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) “Indian” means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe. If the Contractor has reason to doubt that a person seeking employment preference is an Indian, the contractor shall grant the preference but shall require the individual within thirty (30) days to provide evidence from the Tribe concerned that the person is a member of that Tribe.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) “Indian organization” means the governing body of any Indian Tribe or entity established or recognized by such governing body in accordance with the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 77; 25 U.S.C. 1451); and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) “Indian-owned economic enterprise” means any Indian-owned commercial, industrial, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit provided that such Indian ownership shall constitute not less than 51 percent of the enterprise.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) “Indian Tribe” means an Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 668; 43 U.S.C. 1601) which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contractor agrees to include the provisions of the clause including this paragraph (f) in each subcontract awarded under this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(g) In the event of noncompliance with this clause, the Contractor's right to proceed may be terminated in whole or in part by the Contracting Officer and the work completed in a manner determined by the Contracting Officer to be in the best interests of the Government.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
