<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e7143" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1480.201</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">The following words and terms are used as defined below unless a different definition is prescribed for a particular subpart or portion of a subpart.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Buy Indian Act</i> means section 23 of the Act of June 25, 1910 (25 U.S.C. 47).
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Buy Indian contract</i> means any contract involving activities covered by the Buy Indian Act that is negotiated under the provisions of 41 U.S.C. 252(c) and 25 U.S.C. 47 between an Indian economic enterprise and a Contracting Officer representing the Department of the Interior.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Challenge to representation</i> means an accurate, complete and timely written objection by an interested party to an offeror's representation submitted in response to a solicitation under the Buy Indian Act.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Chief of the Contracting Office (CCO),</i> unless otherwise specified by bureau/office regulation, means the senior GS-1102 within a contracting office. If the CCO is also the CO for an action requiring approval by the CCO, then approval shall be at a level above the CCO in accordance with bureau/office procedures.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Concern</i> means any business entity organized for profit (even if its ownership is in the hands of a nonprofit entity) with a place of business located in the United States or its outlying areas and that makes a significant contribution to the U.S. economy through payment of taxes and/or use of American products, material and/or labor, etc. It includes but is not limited to an individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. For the purpose of making affiliation findings (see FAR 19.101), it includes any business entity, whether organized for profit or not, and any foreign business entity, <i>i.e.,</i> any entity located outside the United States and its outlying areas.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Contracting Officer (CO)</i> means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings on behalf of the U.S. Government.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Covered construction</i> means construction for road facilities on Indian-owned land; road facilities on an Indian reservation; road facilities that are primary access routes proposed by tribal governments, including roads between villages, roads to landfills, roads to drinking water sources, roads to natural resources identified for economic development; roads that provide access to intermodal termini, such as airports, harbors, or boat landings; bridges along these roads; planning and other needs and facilities associated with roads; and sidewalks along these roads.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Day</i> means a calendar day.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Deviation</i> means an exception to the requirement for use of the Buy Indian Act in fulfilling an acquisition requirement of Indian Affairs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Fair market price</i> means a price based on reasonable costs under normal competitive conditions and not on lowest possible cost, as determined in accordance with FAR 19.202-6(a).
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Governing body</i> means the recognized entity empowered to exercise governmental authority over an Indian tribe.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Indian</i> means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe or “Native” as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (PL 92-203; 85 Stat 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601).
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Indian Affairs (IA)</i> means all bureaus and offices under the Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Indian economic enterprise (IEE)</i> means any business activity owned by one or more Indians or Indian Tribes that is established for the purpose of profit provided that: the combined Indian or Indian Tribe ownership must constitute not less than 51 percent of the enterprise; the Indians or Indian Tribes must, together, receive at least a majority of the earnings from the contract; and the management and daily business operations of an enterprise must be controlled by one or more individuals who are Indians. To ensure actual control over the enterprise, the individuals must possess requisite management or technical capabilities directly related to the primary industry in which the enterprise conducts business. The enterprise must meet these requirements throughout the following time periods:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(1) At the time an offer is made in response to a written solicitation;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) At the time of contract award; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) During the full term of the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Indian land</i> means land over which an Indian Tribe is recognized by the United States as having governmental jurisdiction and land owned by a Native corporation established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971 (85 Stat. 688, 43 U.S.C. 1601), so long as the Native corporation qualifies as an IEE, as defined herein. In the State of Oklahoma, or where there has been a final judicial determination that a reservation has been disestablished or diminished, the term means that area of land constituting the former reservation of the Tribe as defined by the Secretary.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Indian small business economic enterprise</i> (<i>ISBEE</i>) means an IEE that is also a small business concern established in accordance with the criteria and size standards of 13 CFR part 121.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Indian Tribe</i> means an Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other recognized group or community that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (PL 92-203, 85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601).
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Interested party</i> means an IEE that is an actual or prospective offeror whose direct economic interest would be affected by the proposed or actual IA award of a particular contract set-aside pursuant the Buy Indian Act.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Product of Indian industry</i> means anything produced by an IEE either through physical labor or by intellectual effort involving the use and application of its skills.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Representation</i> means the positive statement by an enterprise of its eligibility for preferential consideration and participation for acquisitions conducted under the Buy Indian Act, 25 U.S.C. 47, in accordance with the procedures in Subpart 1480.8.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Reservation</i> means Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, former Indian reservations in Oklahoma, and land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1601.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Subcontract</i> means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Government prime contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies and/or services required for performance of the contract, contract modification, or subcontract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Subcontractor</i> means a concern to which a contractor subcontracts any work under the contract. The term includes subcontractors at any tier who perform work on the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Work</i> means the level of work effort by the prime contractor based on total direct project costs.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
