<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e2006" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1409.403</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As used in this subpart:
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Case Representative</i> refers to the individual who prepares and forwards the action referral memorandum to the Debarring and Suspending Official and provides additional assistance in the course of action resolution. Debarment and Suspension actions may be referred to the Debarring and Suspending Official for consideration from different sources, as appropriate. The HCA, or designee, may refer matters. The Office of Inspector General (OIG) may also refer actions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Conviction,</i> for the purposes of this subpart, means:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) A judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, including a plea of nolo contendere; or,
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Any other resolution that is the functional equivalent of a judgment, including probation before judgment and deferred prosecution. A disposition without the participation of the court is the functional equivalent of a judgment only if it includes an admission of guilt.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Debarring Official</i> refers to the Director, PAM. The Debarring Official is the official authorized to impose debarment or suspension. The Debarring Official also may settle a debarment or suspension action at any time if it is in the best interest of the Government.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Suspending Official</i> refers to the Director, PAM.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
