<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e6989" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1452.280-3</ph> Subcontracting limitations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">A contractor shall not subcontract to other than responsible Indian economic enterprises more than 50 percent of the subcontracted work when the prime contract was awarded under the Buy Indian Act. For this purpose, work to be performed does not include the provision of materials, supplies, or equipment. As prescribed in 1480.601(b), insert the following clause in each written solicitation or contract to provide supplies, services, or covered construction: 
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p outputclass="HD1">Subcontracting Limitations (JUL 2013)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) Definitions as used in this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Concern</i> means any business entity organized for profit (even if its ownership is in the hands of a nonprofit entity) with a place of business located in the United States or its outlying areas and that makes a significant contribution to the U.S. economy through payment of taxes and/or use of American products, material and/or labor, etc. It includes but is not limited to an individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. For the purpose of making affiliation findings (see 19.101) any business entity, whether organized for profit or not, and any foreign business entity, <i>i.e.,</i> any entity located outside the United States and its outlying areas.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Subcontract</i> means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Government prime contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies and/or services required for performance of the contract, contract modification, or subcontract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Subcontractor</i> means a concern to which a contractor subcontracts any work under the contract. It includes subcontractors at any tier who perform work on the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) Required Percentages of work by the concern. The contractor must comply with FAR 52.219-14 Limitations on Subcontracting clause in allocating what percentage of work to subcontract. Of the work subcontracted, no more than 50 percent may be subcontracted to a concern other than a responsible Indian economic enterprise.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) Indian Preference. Regardless of the contract type for services, supplies, or covered construction, the contractor agrees to give preference to Indian organizations and Indian owned economic enterprises in awarding subcontracts under this contract in accordance with DIAR 1452.226-71, Indian Preference.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) Cooperation. The contractor must:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Carry out the requirements of this clause to the fullest extent; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Cooperate in any study or survey that the CO, Indian Affairs, or its agents may conduct to verify the contractor's compliance with this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) Incorporation in Subcontracts. The contractor must incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts for supplies, services, and construction awarded under this contract.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[78 FR 34271, June 7, 2013]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
