<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e3824" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1426.7101</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">For purposes of this subpart the following definitions shall apply:
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Contract</i> means a contract or subcontract awarded pursuant to the FAR, as well as federal financial assistance, including a subcontract, cooperative agreement, grant, subagreement or subgrant.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Minority business enterprise</i> means a business which is at least 51% owned by one or more minority individuals, or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51% of the voting stock is owned by one or more minority individuals. The daily business operations are likewise managed by the minority owner.
</p>
         <p outputclass="P">
                                 <i>Minority individual</i> means a U.S. citizen who has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias because of their identity as members of this group without regard to their individual qualities. Such groups include, but are not limited to: Black Americans; Hispanic Americans; Native Americans; Asian-Pacific Americans; and other groups whose members are U.S. citizens and are found to be disadvantaged by the Small Business Administration pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act as amended (15 U.S.C. 637(d)), or the Secretary of Commerce.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Native Americans</i> are persons having origins in any of the original peoples of North America or the Hawaiian Islands; in particular, American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts and Native Hawaiians.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Asian-Pacific Americans</i> - persons having origins from Japan, China, the Philippines, Vietnam, Korea, Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Trust Territories of the Pacific, Northern Marianas, Laos, Cambodia, Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
