<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e6544" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1452.228-70</ph> Liability Insurance.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As prescribed in 1428.301, insert the following clause:
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p outputclass="HD1">Liability Insurance - Department of the Interior (JUL 1996)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor shall procure and maintain during the term of this contract and any extension thereof liability insurance in form satisfactory to the Contracting Officer by an insurance company which is acceptable to the Contracting Officer. The named insured parties under the policy shall be the Contractor and the United States of America. The amounts of the insurance shall be not less than as follows:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-1">$___each person*
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-1">$___each occurrence*
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-1">$___property damage*
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) Each policy shall have a certificate evidencing the insurance coverage. The insurance company shall provide an endorsement to notify the Contracting Officer 30 days prior to the effective date of cancellation or termination of the policy or certificate; or modification of the policy or certificate which may adversely affect the interest of the Government in such insurance. The certificate shall identify the contract number, the name and address of the Contracting Officer, as well as the insured, the policy number and a brief description of contract services to be performed. The contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer with a copy of an acceptable insurance certificate prior to beginning the work.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP">*These amounts to be set by the Contracting Officer.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
