<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1480_503_T48_5075948513">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1480.503</ph> Procedures for acquisitions under the Buy Indian Act.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Commercial items or simplified acquisitions under this section must conform to the competition and price reasonableness documentation requirements of FAR 12.209 for commercial item acquisitions and FAR 13.106 for simplified acquisitions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) When acquiring construction services, solicit proposals and evaluate potential contractors in accordance with FAR part 36 and DIAR subpart 1436.2.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) When acquiring A&amp;E services, solicit proposals and evaluate potential contractors in accordance with FAR part 36 and DIAR subpart 1436.6.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) This paragraph (d) applies to solicitations that are not restricted to participation of IEEs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) If an interested IEE is identified after a solicitation has been issued, but before the date established for receipt of offers, the contracting office must provide a copy of the solicitation to this enterprise. In this case, the CO:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Will not give preference under the Buy Indian Act to the IEE; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) May extend the date for receipt of offers when practical.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If more than one IEE is identified subsequent to the solicitation, but prior to the date established for receipt of offers, the CO may cancel the solicitation and re-compete it as an IEE set-aside.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) This paragraph (e) lists the clauses and provisions that must be inserted.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Insert the clause at 1452.280-1, Notice of Indian Small Business Economic Enterprise set-aside, in accordance with 1480.401(c).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Insert the clause at 1452.280-2, Notice of Indian Economic Enterprise set-aside, in accordance with 1480.401(d).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Insert the clause at 1452.280-3, Indian Economic Enterprise subcontracting limitations, in accordance with 1480.601(b).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Insert the clause at 1452.280-4, Indian Economic Enterprise representation, in accordance with 1480.801(a).




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
