<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1426_7001_T48_5075524112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1426.7001</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">For purposes of this subpart the following definitions shall apply:
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian</i> means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe. If the contractor has reason to doubt that a person seeking employment preference is an Indian, the contractor shall grant the preference but shall require the individual within thirty (30) days to provide evidence from the Tribe concerned that the person is a member of the Tribe.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian organization</i> means that governing body of any Indian Tribe or entity established or recognized by such governing body in accordance with the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 77; 25 U.S.C. 1451).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian-owned economic enterprise</i> means any Indian-owned commercial, industrial, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit provided that such Indian ownership shall constitute not less than 51 percent of the enterprise.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian reservation</i> includes Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, former Indian reservations in Oklahoma, and land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601 <i>et seq.</i>).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian Tribe</i> means an Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other recognized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>On or near an Indian reservation</i> means on a reservation or the distance within that area surrounding an Indian reservation(s) that a person seeking employment could reasonably be expected to commute to and from in the course of a work day.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
