<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1452_237_71_T48_50758471120">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1452.237-71</ph> Utilization of Woody Biomass.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1437.7202, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Utilization of Woody Biomass (MAY 2005)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor may remove and utilize woody biomass, if:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Project work is progressing as scheduled; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Removal is completed before contract expiration.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) To execute this option, the contractor must submit a written request to the Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Following receipt of the written request, and if appropriate, the Government and the contractor will negotiate and execute a separate timber/vegetative sales contract. Payment under the timber/vegetative sales contract must be at a price equal to or greater than the appraised value of the woody biomass. The contractor must make any appropriate payment specified in the related timber/vegetative sales contract before removal may be authorized.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If required by law, regulation or Bureau policy, the Government will prepare a timber/vegetative sales notice and/or prospectus, including volume estimates, appraised value and any appropriate special provisions.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contractor must treat any woody biomass not removed in accordance with the specifications in the service contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The sales contract and service contract are severable; default or termination under either contract does not remove the contractor from payment or performance obligations under the other contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) Definitions:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Timber/vegetative sales contract and/or notice</i> means the agency-specific authorized contract instrument for the sale, barter, exchange, billing or other compensation for the payment, removal, and/or transportation of woody biomass material.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Woody biomass</i> means the trees and woody plants, including limbs, tops, needles, leaves, and other woody parts, grown in a forest, woodland, or rangeland environment, that are the by-products of management, restoration and/or hazardous fuel reduction treatment.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
