<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1401_304_T48_507522315">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1401.304</ph> Agency control and compliance procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)(1) The DIAR System is under the direct oversight and control of the Director, PAM, who is responsible for reviewing and preparing the issuance of all Department-wide and bureau-wide acquisition regulations published in the Federal Register to ensure compliance with FAR Part 1. Review procedures are contained in Part 401 of the Departmental Manual (401 DM) and paragraph (a)(3) of this section. One copy of all material issued shall be furnished to the Director, PAM, at the time of issuance.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Director, PAM, is also responsible for reviewing and issuing unpublished Department-wide internal guidance under the DIAR System.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A bureau wishing to issue bureau-wide regulations shall submit a request to the Director, PAM, for authority to proceed with the regulation. The request shall include a justification for the regulation and a proposed outline of the regulation and the significant contents of the coverage to be included. The Director, PAM, shall review the request to determine whether the regulation should be considered for inclusion in the DIAR or FAR. If a determination is made that the regulation is appropriate for inclusion in the DIAR or FAR, PAM will process the regulation accordingly. If a determination is made that the regulation is appropriate for inclusion in bureau-wide regulations only, the Director, PAM, shall assign an appendix to 48 CFR Chapter 14 and authorization shall be granted for the bureau to proceed with the regulation in accordance with the procedures referenced in 1401.301(b). Rulemaking notices shall be submitted to the Director, PAM, for processing of AS/PMB approval under 401 DM 1.4C(3), before the appropriate program Assistant Secretary signs them.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) HCAs are responsible for establishing and implementing formal procedures for oversight and control of all unpublished bureau-wide internal guidance issued to implement FAR or DIAR requirements. The Director, PAM, shall review and approve these procedures and they shall include:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Provisions for centralized issuance of all guidance and instructions using a directives system;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Methods for periodic review and updating of all issuances;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Distribution processes which ensure timely receipt by all affected contracting offices; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Provisions for maintaining compliance with FAR 1.304.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Director, PAM, is responsible for evaluating coverage under the DIAR System to determine applicability to other agencies and for recommending coverage to the FAR Secretariat for inclusion in the FAR.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
