<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1480_201_T48_5075948211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1480.201</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA)</i> means Public Law 92-203 (December 18, 1971), 85 Stat. 688, codified at 43 U.S.C. 1601-1629h.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Buy Indian Act</i> means section 23 of the Act of June 25, 1910, codified at 25 U.S.C. 47.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contracting Officer (CO)</i> means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings on behalf of the U.S. Government.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Deviation</i> means an exception to the requirement to use the Buy Indian Act in fulfilling an acquisition requirement subject to the Buy Indian Act.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Fair market price</i> means a price based on reasonable costs under normal competitive conditions and not on lowest possible cost, as determined in accordance with FAR 15.404-1(b).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Federally Recognized Indian Tribe</i> means an Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other Federally recognized group or community on the List of Federally Recognized Tribes. This definition includes any Alaska Native regional or village corporation under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANSCA).
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Governing Body</i> means the recognized entity empowered to exercise governmental authority over a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian</i> means a person who is an enrolled member of a Federally Recognized Indian Tribe.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian Affairs (IA)</i> means all bureaus and offices under the Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian Economic Enterprise (IEE)</i> means any business activity owned by one or more Indians or Federally Recognized Indian Tribes provided that:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(1) The combined Indian or Federally Recognized Indian Tribe ownership of the enterprise constitutes not less than 51 percent;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) The Indians or Federally Recognized Indian Tribes must, together, receive at least 51 percent of the earnings from the contract; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) The management and daily business operations of an enterprise must be controlled by one or more individuals who are Indians. The Indian individual(s) must possess requisite management or technical capabilities directly related to the primary industry in which the enterprise conducts business. Management may be provided by:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Committees, teams, or Boards of Directors which are controlled by one or more members of Tribe, or;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Non-Tribal members if the enterprise can demonstrate that the Tribe can hire and fire those individuals, that it will retain control of all management decisions common to boards of directors, including strategic planning, budget approval, and the employment and compensation of officers, and that a written management development plan exists which shows how Tribal members will develop managerial skills sufficient to manage the enterprise or similar enterprises in the future.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Indian Small Business Economic Enterprise (ISBEE)</i> means an IEE that is also a small business concern established in accordance with the criteria and size standards of 13 CFR part 121.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Interested Party</i> means an IEE that is an actual or prospective offeror whose direct economic interest would be affected by the proposed or actual award of a particular contract set-aside pursuant the Buy Indian Act.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>List of Federally Recognized Tribes</i> means an entity appearing on the United States Department of the Interior's List of federally recognized Indian Tribes published annually in the Federal Register pursuant to Section 104 of Public Law 103-454, codified at 25 U.S.C. 5131.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
