<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1452_201_70_T48_5075847112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1452.201-70</ph> Authorities and delegations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in section 1401.670-1, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Authorities and Delegations (SEP 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer is the only individual authorized to enter into or terminate this contract, modify any term or condition of this contract, waive any requirement of this contract, or accept nonconforming work.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contracting Officer will designate a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) at time of award. The COR will be responsible for technical monitoring of the contractor's performance and deliveries. The COR will be appointed in writing, and a copy of the appointment will be furnished to the Contractor. Changes to this delegation will be made by written changes to the existing appointment or by issuance of a new appointment.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The COR is not authorized to perform, formally or informally, any of the following actions:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Promise, award, agree to award, or execute any contract, contract modification, or notice of intent that changes or may change this contract;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Waive or agree to modification of the delivery schedule;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Make any final decision on any contract matter subject to the Disputes Clause;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Terminate, for any reason, the Contractor's right to proceed;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Obligate in any way, the payment of money by the Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor shall comply with the written or oral direction of the Contracting Officer or authorized representative(s) acting within the scope and authority of the appointment memorandum. The Contractor need not proceed with direction that it considers to have been issued without proper authority. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing, with as much detail as possible, when the COR has taken an action or has issued direction (written or oral) that the Contractor considers to exceed the COR's appointment, within 3 days of the occurrence. Unless otherwise provided in this contract, the Contractor assumes all costs, risks, liabilities, and consequences of performing any work it is directed to perform that falls within any of the categories defined in paragraph (c) prior to receipt of the Contracting Officer's response issued under paragraph (e) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contracting Officer shall respond in writing within 30 days to any notice made under paragraph (d) of this clause. A failure of the parties to agree upon the nature of a direction, or upon the contract action to be taken with respect thereto, shall be subject to the provisions of the Disputes clause of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contractor shall provide copies of all correspondence to the Contracting Officer and the COR.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) Any action(s) taken by the Contractor, in response to any direction given by any person acting on behalf of the Government or any Government official other than the Contracting Officer or the COR acting within his or her appointment, shall be at the Contractor's risk.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
