<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1452_228_72_T48_50758471114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1452.228-72</ph> Liability for Loss or Damage - Department of the Interior.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1428.306-70(c)(2), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Liability for Loss or Damage - Department of the Interior (APR 1984)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor shall indemnify and hold the Government harmless from any and all loss or damage to the aircraft furnished under this contract except as provided in paragraph (d) of this clause. For the purpose of fulfilling its obligation under this clause, the Contractor shall procure and maintain during the term of this contract, and any extensions thereof, full insurance acceptable to the Contracting Officer. The Contractor's insurance coverage shall apply to pilots furnished by the Government who operate the aircraft. The contractor may request a list of Government pilots by name and qualification who are potential pilots.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Prior to the commencement of work hereunder, the Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer a copy of the insurance policy or policies or a certificate of insurance issued by the underwriter(s) showing that the coverage required by this clause has been obtained.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Each policy or certificate evidencing the insurance shall contain an endorsement which provides that the insurance company will notify the Contracting Officer 30 days prior to the effective date of any cancellation or termination of any policy or certificate or any modification of a policy or certificate which adversely affects the interests of the Government in such insurance. The notice shall be sent by registered mail and shall identify this contract, the name and address of the contracting office, the policy, and the insured.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If the aircraft is damaged or destroyed while in the custody and control of the Government, the Government will reimburse the Contractor for the deductible stipulated in the insurance coverage (if any) as follows:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) In-Motion Accidents - Up to 5 percent of the current insured value of the aircraft stated in the policy, or $10,000, whichever is less.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Not In-Motion Accidents - Up to $250 per accident. Such reimbursement shall not be made, however, for loss or damage to the aircraft resulting from:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Normal wear and tear,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Negligence or fault in maintenance of the aircraft by the Contractor, or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) A defect in construction of the aircraft or a component thereof.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) If damage to the aircraft is established to be the fault of the Government, rental payments to the Contractor during the repair period will be made as set forth elsewhere in this contract. The Government may, at its option, make necessary repairs or return the aircraft to the Contractor for repair. In the event the aircraft is lost, destroyed, or damaged so extensively as to be beyond repair, no rental payment will be made to the Contractor thereafter.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Any failure to agree as to the responsibility of the Government or the Contractor under this clause shall, after a final finding and determination by the Contracting Officer, be considered a dispute within the meaning of the “Disputes” clause of this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
