<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1401_303_T48_507522314">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1401.303</ph> Publication and codification.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)(1) Implementing and supplementing regulations issued under the DIAR System are codified under Chapter 14 in Title 48, Code of Federal Regulations and shall parallel the FAR in format, arrangement, and numbering system.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(2)
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Department-wide regulations are assigned parts 1401 through 1479 under 48 CFR, Chapter 14.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Where material in the FAR requires no implementation, there will be no corresponding number in the DIAR. Thus, there are gaps in the DIAR sequence of numbers where the FAR, as written, is deemed adequate. Supplemental material shall be numbered as specified in FAR 1.303.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Bureau-wide regulations are authorized for codification in Appendices to Chapter 14, as assigned by the Director, PAM, in accordance with 1401.304(a)(3).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Regulations implementing the FAR or DIAR are numbered using Parts 1401 through 1479. Supplemental material is numbered using Parts 1480 through 1499. Numbers for implementing or supplementing regulations by bureaus/offices are preceded by a prefix to the number 14 (indicating Chapter 14-DIAR) for the organization indicated by lettered appendices as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Bureau of Indian Affairs - BIA
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Bureau of Reclamation - WBR
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) National Business Center - NBC
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Bureau of Land Management - LLM
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) U.S. Geological Survey - WGS
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Office of Surface Mining Reclamation &amp; Enforcement - LSM
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Minerals Management Service - LMS
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) National Park Service - FNP
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(9) U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service - FWS
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>e.g.,</i> FAR 1.3 then DIAR 1401.3 [Department level] then in Appendix A, BIA 1401.3 [Bureau level].


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
