<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1452_280_2_T48_50758471122">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1452.280-2</ph> Notice of Indian economic enterprise set-aside.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 1480.503(d)(4) and 1480.504-1(f)(5), insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts involving Indian economic enterprise set-asides. If the solicitation is oral, information substantially identical to that contained in the provision must be given to potential offerors. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Notice of Indian Economic Enterprise Set-aside (JUL 2013)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Definitions as used in this clause.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Indian</i> means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe or “Native” as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (PL 92-203; 85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Indian Economic Enterprise</i> means any business activity owned by one or more Indians or Indian Tribes that is established for the purpose of profit, provided that:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) The combined Indian or Indian Tribe ownership shall constitute not less than 51 percent of the enterprise; (ii) the Indians or Indian Tribes shall, together, receive at least a majority of the earnings from the contract; and (iii) the management and daily business operations of an Indian economic enterprise must be controlled by one or more individuals who are members of an Indian Tribe. To ensure actual control over the enterprise, the individuals must possess requisite management or technical capabilities directly related to the primary industry in which the enterprise conducts business. The enterprise must meet these requirements throughout the following time periods:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) At the time an offer is made in response to a written solicitation;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) At the time of contract award; and,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) During the full term of the contract.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Indian Tribe</i> means an Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other recognized group or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, including any Alaska Native village, regional or village corporation established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (PL 92-203, 85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Representation</i> means the positive statement by an enterprise of its eligibility for preferential consideration and participation for acquisitions conducted under the Buy Indian Act, 25 U.S.C. 47, in accordance with the procedures in Subpart 1480.8.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) General.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Under the Buy Indian Act, offers are solicited only from Indian economic enterprises.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) BIA will reject all offers received from ineligible enterprises.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to an Indian economic enterprise, as defined in paragraph (a) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Required Submissions. In response to this solicitation, an offeror must also provide the following:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) A description of the required percentage of the work/costs to be provided by the offeror over the contract term as required by section 1452.280-3, Subcontracting Limitations clause;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) A description of the source of human resources for the work to be performed by the offeror;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) A description of the method(s) of recruiting and training Indian employees, indicating the extent of soliciting employment of Indian persons, as required by DIAR 1452.226-70, Indian Preference, or DIAR 1452.226-71, Indian Preference Program, clause(s);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) A description of how subcontractors (if any) will be selected in compliance with the “Indian Preference” or “Indian Preference Program” clause(s);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) The names, addresses, and descriptions of work to be performed by Indian persons or economic enterprises being considered for subcontracts (if any) and the percentage of the total direct project work/costs they would be performing;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Qualifications of the key personnel (if any) that will be assigned to the contract; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) A description of method(s) for compliance with any supplemental Tribal employment preference requirements, if contained in this solicitation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Required Assurance. The offeror must provide written assurance to the Indian Affairs that it will comply, or has, complied fully with the requirements of this clause. It must do this before Indian Affairs awards the Buy Indian contract, and upon successful and timely completion of the contract, but before the Indian Affairs Contracting Officer (CO) accepts the work or product.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Non-responsiveness. Failure to provide the information required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this clause may cause Indian Affairs to find an offer non-responsive and to reject it.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Eligibility.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Participation in the Mentor-Protégé Program established under section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (25 U.S.C. 47 note) does not render an Indian economic enterprise ineligible for contracts awarded under the Buy Indian Act.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If a contractor no longer meets the definition of an Indian economic enterprise after award, the contractor must notify the CO in writing. The notification must include full disclosure of circumstances causing the contractor to lose eligibility status and a description of any actions that the contractor will take to regain eligibility. Failure to give the CO immediate written notification means that: 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The economic enterprise may be declared ineligible for future contract awards under this part; and (ii) Indian Affairs may consider termination for default if it is in the best interest of the government.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
