<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_270_71_T48_50650452162">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.270-71</ph> Pre-bid/pre-proposal conference and site visit.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1370.102, insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Pre-Bid/Pre-Proposal Conference and Site Visit (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Government is planning a pre-proposal conference, during which potential contractors may obtain a better understanding of the work required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Offerors are encouraged to submit all questions in writing at least [__] days prior to the conference. Questions will be considered at any time prior to, or during, the conference; however, offerors will be asked to confirm verbal questions in writing. Subsequent to the conference, an amendment to the solicitation containing an abstract of the questions and the Government's answers, and a list of attendees, will be made publicly available.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) In order to facilitate conference preparations, contact the person identified in [Block _] on Standard Form [_] of this solicitation to make arrangements for security processing for entry of attendees into the Government facility.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) In no event shall failure to attend the pre-proposal conference constitute grounds supporting a protest or contract claim.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Offerors are cautioned that, notwithstanding any remarks, clarifications, or responses provided at the conference, all terms and conditions of the solicitation remain unchanged unless they are changed by written amendment. It is the responsibility of each offeror, prior to submitting a proposal, to seek clarification of any perceived ambiguity in the solicitation or created by an amendment of the solicitation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The pre-proposal conference will be held:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Date:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Time:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Location:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[Instructions: If the conference also includes a site or equipment inspection visit, insert the following paragraph]:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) During the conference, an opportunity to visit the site of the work, and, if applicable, inspect equipment on which maintenance or repairs are to be performed will be offered to attendees.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) Offerors are expected to satisfy themselves regarding all conditions that may affect the work required or the cost of contract performance. In no event shall failure to inspect the site and/or equipment constitute grounds for any protest or contract claim.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
