<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_73_T48_50650452166">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-73</ph> Schedule of work.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.104, insert the following clause.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Schedule of Work (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Notwithstanding other requirements specified in this contract, the contractor shall provide to the Contracting Officer and COR the following documents within five (5) working days of the vessel's arrival at the contractor's facility:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Production Schedule.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Work Package Network.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Total Manpower Loading Curve.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Trade Manning Curves.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Subcontracting List.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Production Schedule shall list the earliest, latest, and scheduled start and completion date for each work item awarded and shall identify the critical path. The Work Package Network shall show the work items, milestones, key events, and activities and shall clearly identify the critical path. The Total Manpower Loading Curve shall show the required manning for the duration of the contract. The Trade Manning Curves shall show the required manning for each trade for the duration of the contract. The Subcontracting List shall show work items, milestones, key events, and activities to be accomplished by subcontractors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Additional Item Requirements ordered and agreed upon, whether or not yet formalized via a change order (contract modification), shall be added to the Production Schedule, Trade Manning Curves, and Subcontracting List and submitted to the Contracting Officer and COR at each weekly Progress Meeting. Any anticipated or unanticipated deviation (greater than five (5) calendar days) from the Production Schedule shall be immediately brought to the attention of the Contracting Officer and COR.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Any unauthorized deviation in the Production Schedule which results in a delay in the completion of work on a vessel past the established performance period completion date may entitle the Government to remedies for late performance, including, but not limited to, liquidated damages.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
