<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1303_204_T48_506434212">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1303.204</ph> Treatment of violations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The designee authorized to determine violations of the Gratuities clause is set forth in CAM 1301.70.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Upon receipt of an allegation or evidence of a violation of the Gratuities clause, the designee shall conduct a fact-finding. If there is a basis for further action, a signed notice shall be prepared and sent to the contractor by certified mail, return receipt requested, or any other method that provides signed evidence of receipt. If a reply is not received from the contractor within 45 calendar days of sending the notice, a decision shall be made on the appropriate action to be taken. If a reply is received from the contractor within 45 calendar days of sending the notice, the information in the reply must be considered before making a decision on the appropriate action to be taken. Upon request of the contractor, the contractor shall be provided an opportunity to appear in person to present information concerning the matter. A report shall be prepared following the presentation and the information must be considered when making a decision. A decision shall be made on the basis of all information available, including findings of fact and oral or written information submitted by the contractor. All mitigating factors shall be considered prior to making a final decision concerning what action will be taken.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
