<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_88_T48_50650452181">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-88</ph> Guarantees.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.119, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Guarantees (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In the event any work performed or materials furnished by the contractor under this contract prove defective or deficient within __ days from the date of redelivery of the vessel, the contractor, as directed by the Contracting Officer and at its own expense, shall correct and repair the deficiency to the satisfaction of the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Government shall be entitled to rely upon any guarantee secured by the contractor or any sub-contractor covering work done or materials furnished which exceeds the __day period until its expiration.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) With respect to any individual work item identified and listed as incomplete at the redelivery of the vessel, the guarantee period shall run from the date of completion of such item.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If and when practicable, the Government shall afford the contractor an opportunity to effect such corrections and repairs.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) If the Contracting Officer determines it is impracticable or is otherwise not advisable to return the vessel to the contractor, or the contractor fails to proceed promptly with any such repairs as directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer may direct that the repairs be performed elsewhere, at the contractor's expense.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Where corrections and repairs are to be made by other than the contractor due to nonreturn of the vessel to the contractor, the contractor's liability may be discharged by an equitable deduction in the price of the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contractor's liability shall only extend for an additional __ day guarantee period on those defects or deficiencies which it corrected. However, this clause does not limit the responsibility or relieve the liability of the contractor under the Liability and Insurance clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) At the Contracting Officer's option, defects and deficiencies may be left in their uncorrected condition. In that event, the contractor and the Contracting Officer shall agree on an equitable deduction in the contract price. Failure to agree upon an equitable reduction shall constitute a dispute under the Disputes clause of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The rights and remedies of the Government provided in this clause are in addition to and do not limit any rights afforded to the Government by any other clause of the contract. If a defect or deficiency that exists at the time of redelivery of the vessel was not discovered by a reasonable inspection and is discovered after the expiration of the time frame stated in this clause, it is not subject to the time limitations stated in this clause.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
