<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_78_T48_50650452171">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-78</ph> Minimization of delay due to Government furnished property.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.109, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Minimization of Delay Due to Government Furnished Property (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In order to assure timely performance under this contract, it is imperative that delay in the contract's performance period resulting from late, damaged, or unsuitable Government furnished property be held to an absolute minimum. In order to achieve minimization of delay, it is agreed that:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph (b) of this clause, the Government shall deliver each item of Government furnished property to the contractor on or before the date specified in the contract or, if later, in sufficient time for the contractor to meet the contract performance period.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Government may forego furnishing any item of Government property to the contractor. In that event, the contractor shall prepare the vessel in terms of piping, wiring, structure, foundation, ventilation, and any other pre-installation requirements of the item, so that the work on the vessel may continue without delay and disruption resulting from the absence of the item. If the Government does not furnish an item designated as Government furnished property, the contract price may be adjusted accordingly.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The delivery or performance dates for the supplies or services to be furnished by the contractor under this contract are based upon the expectation that Government furnished property suitable for use (except for such property furnished “as is”) will be delivered to the contractor at the time stated in the specification or, if not so stated, in sufficient time to enable the contractor to meet such delivery or performance dates. If the Government furnished property is not furnished in the time stated in the contract, or, if a date is not specified, and the late delivery does not give the contractor sufficient time to enable the contractor to meet required contract delivery or performance dates, the contractor shall notify the Government in writing of the late delivery. Notification shall include cost and schedule impacts, including delays and disruptions to schedules. This notification shall be submitted as soon as practical or known.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The provisions in subsection (b) of this clause and in FAR 52.245-1, if applicable, provide the exclusive remedies to the contractor resulting from delay in delivery of Government furnished property or delivery of such property in a condition not suitable for its intended use.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
