<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_216_72_T48_50650452123">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.216-72</ph> Determination of award fee.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1316.405-2, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Determination of Award Fee (Date)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Based upon the quality of its performance and the results of the Government's performance evaluation, the contractor may earn an award fee.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The total amount of award fee available under this contract is assigned according to the following:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[Insert appropriate information]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) A Performance Evaluation Plan shall be unilaterally established by the Government as part of the contract and used for the determination of award fees. This plan shall include the criteria that will be used to evaluate the contractor's performance and to determine the percentage of award fee (if any) available for each performance period.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The criteria contained within the Performance Evaluation Plan may relate to:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Quality of performance of the contract requirements;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Effective management of the contract; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Cost controls.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Performance Evaluation Plan may be revised unilaterally by the Government at any time during the period of performance, however unless mutually-agreed to a revision shall not affect the current evaluation period. Notification of such changes shall be provided to the contractor [insert number] calendar days prior to the start of the evaluation period to which the change will apply.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) At the conclusion of each evaluation period, and in accordance with the performance evaluation plan, a determination of the amount of the award fee earned shall be made in writing to the contractor by the Government Fee Determination Official (FDO). The FDO's unilateral determination of the amount of award fee earned in any evaluation period or a determination that no fee was earned shall be conclusive.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The contractor may submit a self-evaluation of its performance in an evaluation period. The FDO shall consider the self-evaluation, as the FDO deems appropriate.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The contractor shall submit a voucher for payment of any earned award fee.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
