<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_216_74_T48_50650452125">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.216-74</ph> Task orders.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1316.501-2-70, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Task Orders (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In task order contracts, all work shall be initiated only by issuance of fully executed task orders issued by the Contracting Officer. The work to be performed under these orders must be within the scope of the contract. The Government is only liable for labor hours and costs expended under the terms and conditions of this contract to the extent that a fully executed task order has been issued and covers the required work and costs. Charges for any work not authorized shall be disallowed.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) For each task order under the contract, the Contracting Office shall send a request for proposal to the contractor(s). The request will contain a detailed description of the tasks to be achieved, a schedule for completion of the task order, and deliverables to be provided by the contractor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor shall submit a proposal defining the technical approach to be taken to complete the task order, work schedule and proposed cost/price.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) After any necessary negotiations, the contractor shall submit a final proposal.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Task orders will be considered fully executed upon signature of the Contracting Officer. The contractor shall begin work on the task order in accordance with the effective date of the order.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any instructions or guidance given that may impact the cost, schedule or deliverables of the task order. A formal modification to the task order must be issued by the Contracting Officer before any changes can be made.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) Task orders may be placed during the period of performance of the contract. Labor rates applicable to hours expended in performance of an order will be the contract rates that are in effect at the time the task order is issued.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) If multiple awards are made by the Government, the CO shall provide each awardee a fair opportunity to be considered for each task order over the micro-purchase threshold unless one of the exceptions at FAR 16.505(b) applies.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
