<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_239_70_T48_50650452155">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.239-70</ph> Software license addendum.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1339.107, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Software License Addendum (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This Addendum incorporates certain terms and conditions relating to Federal procurement actions. The terms and conditions of this Addendum take precedence over the terms and conditions contained in any license agreement or other contract documents entered into between the parties.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Governing Law: Federal procurement law and regulations, including the Contract Disputes Act, 41 U.S.C. Section 601 <i>et. seq.,</i> and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), govern the agreement between the parties. Litigation arising out of this contract may be filed only in those fora that have jurisdiction over Federal procurement matters.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Attorney's Fees: Attorney's fees are payable by the Federal government in any action arising under this contract only pursuant to the Equal Access in Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. Section 504.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) No Indemnification: The Federal government will not be liable for any claim for indemnification; such payments may violate the Anti-Deficiency Act, 31 U.S.C. Section 1341(a).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Assignment: Payments may only be assigned in accordance with the Assignment of Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. Section 3727, and FAR Subpart 32.8, “Assignment of Claims.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Invoices: Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. Section 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-125, Prompt Payment.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) Patent and Copyright Infringement: Patent or copyright infringement suits brought against the United States as a party may only be defended by the U.S. Department of Justice (28 U.S.C. Section 516).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) Renewal of Support after Expiration of this Award: Service will not automatically renew after expiration of the initial term of this agreement.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) Renewal may only occur in accord with 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			the mutual agreement of the parties; or (2) an option renewal clause allowing the Government to unilaterally exercise one or more options to extend the term of the agreement.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
