<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1335_001_T48_5064833011">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1335.001</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Human subject</i> means a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research obtains:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Data through intervention or interaction with the individual, or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) Identifiable private information.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Intervention</i> includes both physical procedures by which data are gathered (for example, venipuncture) and manipulations of the subject or the subject's environment that are performed for research purposes. Interaction includes communication or interpersonal contact between investigator and subject. “Private information” includes information about behavior that occurs in a context in which an individual can reasonably expect that no observation or recording is taking place, and information which has been provided for specific purposes by an individual and which the individual can reasonably expect will not be made public (for example, a medical record). Private information must be individually identifiable (<i>i.e.,</i> the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the information) in order for obtaining the information to constitute research involving human subjects.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                 <i>Research</i> means a systematic investigation, including research, development, testing and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge. Activities which meet this definition constitute research for purposes of this policy, whether or not they are conducted or supported under a program which is considered research for other purposes. For example, some demonstration and service programs may include research activities.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
