<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_74_T48_50650452167">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-74</ph> Foreseeable cost factors pertaining to different shipyard locations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.105, insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Foreseeable Cost Factors Pertaining to Different Shipyard Locations (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer will evaluate certain foreseeable costs that will vary with the location of the commercial shipyard to be used by bidders/offerors under this solicitation. Costs will be calculated based on the bidder's/offeror's shipyard location and these costs will be added, for the purposes of evaluation only, to the bidder's/offeror's overall price.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) These elements of foreseeable costs consist of the following:
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Vessel Transit:</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Vessel delivery costs will be based on one round trip from the vessel's homeport of ________ to the contractor's facility at a cruising speed of __ knots. Distances will be based on the NOAA publication, “Distance Between U.S. Ports”.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Daily vessel operational cost to navigate the vessel between its homeport and the contractor's offered place of performance is $____ per day. The number of days to transit to the contractor's offered place of performance from the vessel's homeport will be multiplied by the per-day operational cost.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) No operational costs will be applied if the ship can be delivered to the contractor's facility from its homeport within eight (8) hours port-to-port. If the delivery time exceeds eight (8) hours, but is less than 24 hours, it will be considered one full day. Any fraction of subsequent day(s) will be considered as a full day.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Shore Leave Costs:</i> If the contractor's facility is outside of a 50-mile radius of the vessel's homeport - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) An assessment of $____ for each 15-day period or portion thereof, beginning with the vessel's departure from the homeport and concluding with the vessel's return to homeport.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) There will be an additional transportation cost for ___ vessel crew members for one (1) round trip(s) between the contractor's offered place of performance and the vessel's homeport at the cost of coach-type airfare.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Travel and Per Diem Costs:</i> If the contractor's facility is outside of a 50-mile radius of the vessel's homeport - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) There will be a transportation cost for one (1) Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) for __ round trip(s) between the contractor's offered place of performance and the COR's official duty station at the cost of coach-type airfare.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) There will be a per diem expense for <i>__ calendar days to support one (1) COR while in the city of the place of contract performance, to be determined in accordance with the Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR). The cost of car rental for the estimated performance period will also be included.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) There will be a transportation cost for one (1) Contracting Officer for __ round trip(s) between the Contracting Officer's official duty station and the contractor's offered place of performance at the cost of coach-type airfare, plus per diem expenses and a rental car.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
