<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_71_T48_50650452164">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-71</ph> Method of payment and invoicing instructions for ship repair.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.102, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Method of Payment and Invoicing Instructions for Ship Repair (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Government will make payment under this contract based on a percentage of completion. The contractor may invoice for the percentage completed for each work item as work progresses. The amount invoiced shall be calculated based on prices stated in the Schedule, as follows: A work item may not be invoiced until the percentage complete reaches 25 percent. Future invoices for that work item have no limitation as to the percentage of completion required before invoicing, but in no event may invoices be submitted more frequently than every 2 weeks, or for amounts less than $10,000, unless it is the final payment. The minimum percentage of completion (25%) to be reached prior to billing each work item may be waived by the Contracting Officer for large dollar work items on a case-by-case basis.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Invoices submitted by the contractor which are deemed not proper, in accordance with FAR 52.232-25, will be returned. Invoices shall include:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Name and Address of the contractor;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) DUNS Number;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Invoice Date;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Contract Number/Modification Number;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) CLIN/Work Item Number, to include: Description, Quantity, Unit of Measure, Unit Price and Extended Price;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Shipping and Payment Terms; and,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) Contractor Point of Contact, including: Name, Title, Phone Number, and Mailing Address;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(8) The percentage of completion for each CLIN/work item identified;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(9) Name of the Contracting Officer ;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(10) Ship name;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(11) The overall percentage and dollar amount previously billed, currently billed and unbilled.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) When invoicing for changed work, the contractor shall identify it as a contract change and shall identify the modification authorizing the change, and the CLIN/Work Item associated with the change.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) All items of work invoiced under this contract will be verified and confirmed by the Contracting Officer's Representative as accurate and complete and approved by the designated billing office before payment will be made.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Mail the original invoice to:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">[insert]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The contractor's final invoice submitted under the contract must be marked as follows: “THIS INVOICE CONSTITUTES THE FINAL INVOICE - UPON PAYMENT OF THIS INVOICE NO OTHER MONIES ARE DUE UNDER CONTRACT NUMBER ________.” (To be assigned at contract award)</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
