<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_213_71_T48_50650452113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.213-71</ph> Instructions for submitting quotations under the simplified acquisition threshold - non-commercial.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1313.302-1-70, insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Instructions for Submitting Quotations Under the Simplified Acquisition Threshold - Non-Commercial (Date)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard.</i> The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition is ____.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Submission of quotations.</i> Submit quotations to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. At a minimum, quotations must show - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The solicitation number;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Acknowledgment of solicitation amendments;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) A technical description showing that the offeror can supply the requirements in the specifications or statement of work in sufficient detail to allow the Government to evaluate the quotation in accordance with the evaluation factors stated in the solicitation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and reference information (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Price and any supporting details for the price, as requested in the solicitation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Offerors are responsible for submitting quotations, and any modifications thereto, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified. The offeror's initial quotation should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. The Government may reject any or all quotations if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest quotation; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in quotations received.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
