<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_86_T48_50650452179">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-86</ph> Lay days.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.117, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Lay Days (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) A lay day is defined as an additional day on dry dock or marine railway caused by a Government-issued change. Reimbursement for lay days shall be paid at the rate stated in the Schedule.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) No amount for lay day time shall be paid until all contract line items (including optional items) that require drydocking of the vessel have been completed. Lay days for work ordered pursuant to the Additional Item Requirements Clause shall not be compensable unless all dry dock work included in the contract line items is complete.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Days of hauling out and floating, whatever the hour, shall not be paid as lay day time, and days when no work is performed by the contractor shall not be paid as lay day time. Days in which work is performed that are considered normal “non-work” days (weekends or holidays) shall not be paid as lay day time if the ship would have otherwise been in dry dock.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Payment of lay day time shall constitute complete compensation for all costs associated with lay days except for costs directly related to the changed work.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
