<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1309_406_3_T48_5064410217">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1309.406-3</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Investigation and referral.</i> DOC employees shall immediately refer any cause that might serve as the basis for debarment through the contracting officer to the debarring official.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Decision-making process.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Procedures shall afford the contractor, and any named affiliates, an opportunity to submit information and argument in opposition to the proposed debarment. This may be done in person, in writing or through a representative.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) In actions not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, where the contractor's submission raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment, the following procedures will be followed:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Provide the contractor an opportunity to appear with counsel, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses and confront any person the agency presents;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) A transcribed record of the proceeding will be made, unless the agency and contractor mutually agree to waive the requirement for a transcript. This transcribed record is available to the contractor at cost.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Notice of proposal to debar.</i> A notice of proposed debarment shall be issued by the debarring official in accordance with FAR 9.406-3(c)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			through (7).
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Debarring official's decision.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			For actions based upon a conviction or civil judgment, or when there is no authentic dispute over material facts, the debarring official's decision shall be based on all of the information in the administrative record plus any contractor-submitted data. If there is no suspension in effect, the decision shall be rendered within 30 working days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the contractor. The debarring official can extend this timeframe for good cause.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(2)
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			When necessary, written findings of fact shall be prepared as to disputed material facts. The debarring official will utilize the information in the written findings of fact, the data submitted by the contractor plus any other information in the administrative record to develop the decision.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) While the debarring official may refer matters involving disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact, the debarring official can disregard any such findings in whole or in part upon a determination that they are clearly erroneous.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) After the conclusion of proceedings with respect to disputed facts, the debarring official will make a decision.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) When the proposed debarment is not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the reason for debarment must be based on a preponderance of the evidence.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Notice of debarring official's decision.</i> FAR 9.406-3(e)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			establishes the notification procedures when a debarment has been imposed, while FAR 9.406-3(e)(2) establishes the procedure when a debarment is not imposed.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) Procurement counsel shall assist and advise the debarring official at each stage of the decision-making process.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
