<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_219_70_T48_50650452129">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.219-70</ph> Section 8(a) direct award (Deviation).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1319.811-3(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Section 8(A) Direct Award (Dl) (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This contract is issued as a direct award between the contracting activity and the 8(a) contractor pursuant to a Partnership Agreement between the Small Business Administration (SBA) and the Department of Commerce (DOC). Accordingly, the SBA, even if not identified in Section A of this contract, is the prime contractor and retains responsibility for 8(a) certification, 8(a) eligibility determinations and related issues, and providing counseling and assistance to the 8(a) contractor under the 8(a) program. The cognizant SBA district office is:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[To be completed by the Contracting Officer at time of award]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting activity is responsible for administering the contract and taking any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the contract. However, the contracting activity shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract. The contracting activity shall also coordinate with SBA prior to processing any novation agreement. The contracting activity may assign contract administration functions to a contract administration office.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The 8(a) contractor agrees:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) To notify the Contracting Officer, simultaneously with its notification to SBA (as required by SBA's 8(a) regulations), when the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility is based plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern. Consistent with 15 U.S.C. 637(a)(21), transfer of ownership or control shall result in termination of the contract for convenience, unless SBA waives the requirement prior to the actual relinquishing of ownership or control; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) To adhere to the requirements of FAR 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
