<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_76_T48_50650452169">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-76</ph> Performance.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.107, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Performance (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor shall not commence work until a notice to proceed has been issued by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Government shall deliver the vessel described in the contract at such time and location as may be specified in the contract. Upon completion of the work, the Government shall accept delivery of the vessel at such time and location as may be specified in the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Without additional charge to the Government, and without specific requirement in the contract, the contractor shall:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Make available, at the facility, to personnel of the vessel while in drydock or on a marine railway, sanitary facilities adequate for the number of personnel using them and acceptable to the Contracting Officer;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Supply and maintain, in such condition as the Contracting Officer may reasonably require, suitable brows and gangways from the pier, drydock or marine railway to the vessel;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Perform, or pay the cost of, any repair, reconditioning or replacement made necessary as the result of the use by the contractor of any of the vessel's machinery, equipment or fittings, including, but not limited to, winches, pumps, riggings, or pipe lines; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Furnish suitable offices, office equipment and telephones at or near the site of the work as the Contracting Officer reasonably requires for personnel designated by the Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Except as otherwise provided in the contract, the contractor shall furnish all necessary material, labor, supervision, services, equipment, tools, supplies, power, accessories, facilities, and other things and services necessary for accomplishing the work.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contractor shall conduct dock and sea trials of the vessel as required by the contract. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the contract, during the conduct of these trials the vessel shall be under the control of the vessel's commander and crew with representatives of the contractor and the Government on board to determine whether the work provided by the contractor has been satisfactorily performed. Dock and sea trials not specified which the contractor requires for its own benefit shall not be undertaken by the contractor without prior notice to and approval of the Contracting Officer; any such dock or sea trial shall be conducted at the risk and expense of the contractor. The contractor shall provide and install all fittings and appliances which may be necessary for the dock and sea trials to enable the representatives of the Government to determine whether the requirements of the contract plans and specifications have been met. The contractor shall also be responsible for the care, installation and removal of any instruments and apparatus furnished by the Government for such trials.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
