<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2806_302_70_T48_6011617113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2806.302-70</ph> Determination and findings.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Procedure.</i> The determination and findings (D&amp;F) required by FAR 6.302.7(c)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			shall be prepared in the format provided in paragraph (b) of this subsection. The original D&amp;F and documentation supporting the use of this exception to the requirement for full and open competition shall be submitted to PPRG, JMD, for concurrence and coordination to the Attorney General for signature.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Format.</i> The following format shall be used for the D&amp;F:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Department of Justice
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Washington, DC 20530
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Determination and Findings
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">Authority To Use Other Than Full and Open Competition:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Upon the basis of the following findings and determination, which I hereby make pursuant to the authority of 41 U.S.C. 253(c)(7), as implemented by FAR 6.302-7, it is in the public interest to provide for other than full and open competition in the contract action described below.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">Findings:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">1. The (1) proposes to enter into a contract for the acquisition of (2).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">2. Use of the authority cited above is necessary and in the public interest for the following reasons: (3)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Determination
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">For the reasons described above, it is necessary and in the public interest to use other than full and open competition in the proposed acquisition.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Signature
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Date
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">Notes:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Name of contracting activity.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) Brief description of supplies or services.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(3) Explain the need for use of the authority.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
