<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2833_102_T48_60116428112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2833.102</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) This part describes policies and procedures for processing protests to the Department of Justice in accordance with Executive Order 12979, Agency Procurement Protests, dated October 25, 1995, and FAR 33.103. They are intended to be flexible and to provide for fair, quick, and inexpensive resolution of agency protests.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Interested parties have the option of protesting to the Contracting Officer or to the Agency Protest Official.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contracting officers and potential protestors are encouraged to use their best efforts to resolve concerns through frank and open discussion, as required by FAR 33.103(b). In resolving concerns and/or protests, consideration should be given to the use of alternative dispute resolution techniques where appropriate.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Responsibilities:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Contracting Officers: 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Include the provision at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2852_233_70_T48_60116733214"
                  href="Section_2852_233_70_T48_60116733214.dita#Section_2852_233_70_T48_60116733214">2852.233-70</xref> in all solicitations that are expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(ii) If the protestor requests that the Contracting Officer decide the protest, or if the protest is silent on this issue, the Contracting Officer decides the protest using the procedures in this subpart and FAR 33.103.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(iii) If the protestor requests that the Agency Protest Official decide the protest, the Contracting Officer must ensure that the Agency Protest Official receives a copy of the materials served on the Contracting Officer within one business day after the filing date.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) Agency Protest Official: If the protestor requests that the Agency Protest Official decide the protest, the Official must use the procedures in this subpart and FAR 33.103 to provide an independent review of the issues raised in the protest.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
