<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_247_71_T48_604234411136">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.247-71</ph> Protection of the Florida Manatee.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1847_7001_T48_6042240211"
                  href="Section_1847_7001_T48_6042240211.dita#Section_1847_7001_T48_6042240211">1847.7001</xref>, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Protection of the Florida Manatee (JUN 2018)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-205), as amended, and the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-522), the Florida Manatee <i>(Trichechus Manatus)</i> has been designated an endangered species, and the Indian River Lagoon system within and adjacent to National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA's) Kennedy Space Center (KSC) has been designated as a critical habitat of the Florida Manatee. The KSC Environmental Management Branch will advise all personnel associated with the project of the potential presence of manatees in the work area, and the need to avoid collisions and/or harassment of the manatees. Contractors shall ensure that all employees, subcontractors, and other individuals associated with this contract and who are involved in vessel operations, dockside work, and selected disassembly functions are aware of the civil and criminal penalties for harming, harassing, or killing manatees.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) All contractor personnel shall be responsible for complying with all applicable Federal and/or state permits (<i>e.g.,</i> Florida Department of Environmental Protection, St. Johns River Water Management District, Fish &amp; Wildlife Service) in performing water-related activities within the contract. Where no Federal and/or state permits are required for said contract, and the contract scope requires activities within waters at KSC, the Contractor shall obtain a KSC Manatee Protection Permit from the Environmental Management Branch. All conditions of Federal, state, and/or KSC regulations and permits for manatee protection shall be binding to the contract. Notification and coordination of all water related activities at KSC will be done through the Environmental Management Branch.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor shall incorporate the provisions of this clause in applicable subcontracts.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
