<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1845_7101_T48_6042238611">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1845.7101</ph> Instructions for preparing NASA Form 1018.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">NASA must account for and report assets in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3512 and 31 U.S.C. 3515, Federal Accounting Standards, and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) instructions. Since contractors maintain NASA's official records for its assets in their possession, NASA must obtain periodic data from those records to meet these requirements. Changes in Federal Accounting Standards and OMB reporting requirements may occur from year to year, requiring contractor submission of supplemental information with the NASA Form (NF) 1018. The specific Statements of Federal Financial Accounting Standards (SFFAS) to be used for property records are SFFAS No. 3 “Accounting for Inventory and Related Property”, SFFAS No. 6 “Accounting for Property, Plant and Equipment”, SFFAS No. 10 “Accounting for Internal Use Software”, and SFFAS No. 11 “Amendments to PP&amp;E: Definitions” issued by the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board. Classifications of property, related costs to be reported, and other reporting requirements are discussed in this subpart. NF 1018 (see 1853.3) provides critical information for NASA financial statements and property management. Accuracy, completeness, and timeliness of the report are critical to many aspects of NASA's operations.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
