<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_227_11_T48_60423441164">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.227-11</ph> Patent Rights - Ownership by the Contractor (APR 2015).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1827_303_T48_6042022113"
                  href="Section_1827_303_T48_6042022113.dita#Section_1827_303_T48_6042022113">1827.303</xref>(b)(1), modify the clause at FAR 52.227-11 by:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Adding the following subparagraphs (5) and (6) to paragraph (c) of the basic clause;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) By adding the following subparagraph (iii) to paragraph (e)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of the basic clause;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) By using the following paragraph (j) in lieu of paragraph (j) of the basic clause; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(4) By using the following subparagraph (2) in lieu of subparagraph (k)(2) of the basic clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(5) The Contractor may use whatever format is convenient to disclose subject inventions required in subparagraph (c)(1). NASA prefers that the contractor use either the electronic or paper version of NASA Form 1679, Disclosure of Invention and New Technology (Including Software) to disclose subject inventions. Both the electronic and paper versions of NASA Form 1679 may be accessed at the electronic New Technology Reporting Web site <i>http://invention.nasa.gov.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(6) In addition to the above, the Contractor shall provide the New Technology Representative identified in this contract at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_227_72_T48_60423441170"
                  href="Section_1852_227_72_T48_60423441170.dita#Section_1852_227_72_T48_60423441170">1852.227-72</xref> the following:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) An interim new technology summary report every 12 months (or such longer period as the Contracting Officer may specify) from the date of the contract, listing all subject inventions required to be disclosed during the period or certifying that there were none.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(ii) A final new technology summary report, within 3 months after completion of the contracted work, listing all subject inventions or certifying that there were none.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(iii) Upon request, the filing date, serial number and title, a copy of the patent application, and patent number and issue date for any subject invention in any country in which the contractor has applied for patents.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(iv) An irrevocable power to inspect and make copies of the patent application file, by the Government, when a Federal Government employee is a co-inventor.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of addition)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(iii) The Contractor shall, through employee agreements or other suitable Contractor policy, require that its employees “will assign and do hereby assign” to the Contractor all right, title, and interest in any subject invention under this Contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of addition)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(j) For the purposes of this clause, communications between the Contractor and the Government shall be as specified in the NASA FAR Supplement at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_227_72_T48_60423441170"
                  href="Section_1852_227_72_T48_60423441170.dita#Section_1852_227_72_T48_60423441170">1852.227-72</xref>, Designation of New Technology Representative and Patent Representative.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of addition)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(2) The Contractor shall include the clause in the NASA FAR Supplement at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1852_227_70_T48_60423441168"
                  href="Section_1852_227_70_T48_60423441168.dita#Section_1852_227_70_T48_60423441168">1852.227-70</xref>, New Technology - Other than a Small Business Firm or Nonprofit Organization, suitably modified to identify the parties, in all subcontracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental, research, design, or engineering work to be performed by other than a small business firm or nonprofit organization. At all tiers, the New Technology - Other than a Small Business Firm or Nonprofit Organization clause shall be modified to identify the parties as follows: references to the Government are not changed, and in all references to the Contractor the subcontractor is substituted for the Contractor so that the subcontractor has all rights and obligations of the Contractor in the clause.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of substitution)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
