<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_247_73_T48_604234411139">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.247-73</ph> Bills of Lading.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1847_305_70_T48_6042240112"
                  href="Section_1847_305_70_T48_6042240112.dita#Section_1847_305_70_T48_6042240112">1847.305-70</xref>(b), insert a clause substantially as follows:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Bills of Lading (JUN 2002) 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The purpose of this clause is to define when a commercial bill of lading or a government bill of lading is to be used when shipments of deliverable items under this contract are f.o.b. origin. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Commercial Bills of Lading.</i> All domestic shipments shall be made via commercial bills of lading (CBLs). The Contractor shall prepay domestic transportation charges. The Government shall reimburse the Contractor for these charges if they are added to the invoice as a separate line item supported by the paid freight receipts. If paid receipts in support of the invoice are not obtainable, a statement as described below must be completed, signed by an authorized company representative, and attached to the invoice.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">“I certify that the shipments identified below have been made, transportation charges have been paid by (company name), and paid freight or comparable receipts are not obtainable. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Contract or Order Number: ___________
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Destination: ________________”.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Government Bills of Lading.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			International (export) and domestic overseas shipments of items deliverable under this contract shall be made by Government bills of lading (GBLs). As used in this clause, “domestic overseas” means non-continental United States, i.e. Hawaii, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and possessions of the United States. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) At least 15 days before shipment, the Contractor shall request in writing GBLs from: _______________ [Insert name, title, and mailing address of designated transportation officer or other official delegated responsibility for GBLs]. If time is limited, requests may be by telephone: ____________ [Insert appropriate telephone number]. Requests for GBLs shall include the following information. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Item identification/ description. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Origin and destination. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Individual and total weights. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Dimensional Weight. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Dimensions and total cubic footage. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Total number of pieces. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Total dollar value. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(viii) Other pertinent data.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
