<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1803_903_T48_604163213">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1803.903</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Policy.</i> 10 U.S.C. 2409 prohibits contractors or subcontractors from discharging, demoting, or otherwise discriminating against an employee as a reprisal for disclosing, to any of the entities listed at paragraph (b) of this section, information that the employee reasonably believes is evidence of gross mismanagement of a NASA contract, a gross waste of NASA funds, an abuse of authority relating to a NASA contract, a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or a violation of law, rule, or regulation related to a NASA contract (including the competition for or negotiation of a contract). Such reprisal is prohibited even if it is undertaken at the request of an executive branch official, unless the request takes the form of a non-discretionary directive and is within the authority of the executive branch official making the request.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Entities to whom disclosure may be made:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) A Member of Congress or a representative of a committee of Congress.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The NASA Inspector General or any other Inspector General that has oversight over contracts awarded by or on behalf of NASA.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Government Accountability Office.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) A NASA employee responsible for contract oversight or management.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) An authorized official of the Department of Justice or other law enforcement agency.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) A court or grand jury.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) A management official or other employee of the contractor or subcontractor who has the responsibility to investigate, discover, or address misconduct.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Disclosure clarified.</i> An employee who initiates or provides evidence of contractor or subcontractor misconduct in any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to waste, fraud, or abuse on a NASA contract shall be deemed to have made a disclosure.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Contracting officer actions.</i> A contracting officer who receives a complaint of reprisal of the type described in paragraph (a) of this section shall forward it to legal counsel and to the NASA Inspector General.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
