<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_245_72_T48_604234411120">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.245-72</ph> Liability for Government property furnished for repair or other services.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112"
                  href="Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112.dita#Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112">1845.107-70</xref>(c), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Liability for Government Property Furnished for Repair or Other Services (JAN 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This clause shall govern with respect to any Government property furnished to the Contractor for repair or other services that is to be returned to the Government. Such property, hereinafter referred to as “Government property furnished for servicing,” shall not be subject to FAR 52.245-1, Government Property.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The official accountable recordkeeping and financial control and reporting of the property subject to this clause shall be retained by the Government. The Contractor shall maintain adequate records and procedures to ensure that the Government property furnished for servicing can be readily accounted for and identified at all times while in its custody or possession or in the custody or possession of any subcontractor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor shall be liable for any loss, damage, or destruction of the Government property furnished for servicing when caused by the Contractor's failure to exercise such care and diligence as a reasonable prudent owner of similar property would exercise under similar circumstances. The Contractor shall not be liable for loss, damage, or destruction of Government property furnished for servicing resulting from any other cause except to the extent that the loss, damage, or destruction is covered by insurance (including self-insurance funds or reserves).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor shall hold the Government harmless and shall indemnify the Government against all claims for injury to persons or damage to property of the Contractor or others arising from the Contractor's possession or use of the Government property furnished for servicing or arising from the presence of that property on the Contractor's premises or property.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
