<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1819_7301_T48_6041917611">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1819.7301</ph> Scope of subpart.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Programs were established and issued under the authority of the Small Business Act codified at 15 U.S.C. 631, as amended, and the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-219), codified with amendments at 15 U.S.C. 638, as amended. The Small Business Act requires that the Small Business Administration (SBA) issue SBIR and STTR Program Policy Directives for the general conduct of the SBIR/STTR Programs within the Federal Government. The statutory purpose of the SBIR Program is to strengthen the role of innovative small business concerns (SBCs) in federally-funded research or research and development (R/R&amp;D). Specific program purposes are to: Stimulate technological innovation; use small business to meet Federal R/R&amp;D needs; foster and encourage participation by socially and economically disadvantaged SBCs, and by SBCs that are 51-percent owned and controlled by women, in technological innovation; and increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal R/R&amp;D, thereby increasing competition, productivity and economic growth. Federal agencies participating in the SBIR/STTR Programs (SBIR/STTR agencies) are obligated to follow the guidance provided by the SBA Policy Directive. NASA is required to ensure its policies, regulations, and guidance on the SBIR/STTR Programs are consistent with SBA's Policy Directive. Contracting officers are required to insert the applicable clauses identified in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1819_7302_T48_6041917612"
                  href="Section_1819_7302_T48_6041917612.dita#Section_1819_7302_T48_6041917612">1819.7302</xref> in all SBIR and STTR contracts.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
