<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_245_74_T48_604234411122">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.245-74</ph> Identification and marking of Government equipment.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed by <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112"
                  href="Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112.dita#Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112">1845.107-70</xref>(e), insert the following clause.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Identification and Marking of Government Equipment (JAN 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor shall identify all equipment to be delivered to the Government using NASA Technical Handbook (NASA-HDBK) 6003, Application of Data Matrix Identification Symbols to Aerospace Parts Using Direct Part Marking Methods/Techniques, and NASA Standard (NASA-STD) 6002, Applying Data Matrix Identification Symbols on Aerospace Parts or through the use of commercial marking techniques that: 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			are sufficiently durable to remain intact through the typical lifespan of the property: and, (2) contain the data and data format required by the standards. This requirement includes deliverable equipment listed in the schedule and other equipment when no longer required for contract performance and NASA directs physical transfer to NASA or a third party. The Contractor shall identify property in both machine and human readable form unless the use of a machine readable-only format is approved by the NASA Industrial Property Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Equipment shall be marked in a location that will be human readable, without disassembly or movement of the equipment, when the items are placed in service unless such placement would have a deleterious effect on safety or on the item's operation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Concurrent with equipment delivery or transfer, the Contractor shall provide the following data in an electronic spreadsheet format:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Item Description.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Unique Identification Number (License Tag).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Unit Price.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) An explanation of the data used to make the unique identification number.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) For equipment no longer needed for contract performance and physically transferred under paragraph (a) of this clause, the following additional data is required:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Date originally placed in service.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Item condition.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The data required in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this clause shall be delivered to the NASA center receiving activity listed below:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (f), in all subcontracts that require delivery of equipment.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
