<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1816_405_273_T48_60418153110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1816.405-273</ph> Award fee evaluations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Service contracts.</i> On contracts where the contract deliverable is the performance of a service over any given time period, contractor performance is definitively measurable within each evaluation period. In these cases, all evaluations are final, and the contractor keeps the fee earned in any period regardless of the evaluations of subsequent periods. Unearned award fee in any given period in a service contract is lost and shall not be carried forward, or “rolled-over,” into subsequent periods.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>End item contracts.</i> On contracts, such as those for end item deliverables, where the true quality of contractor performance cannot be measured until the end of the contract, only the last evaluation is final. At that point, the total contract award fee pool is available, and the contractor's total performance is evaluated against the award fee plan to determine total earned award fee. In addition to the final evaluation, interim evaluations are done to monitor performance prior to contract completion, provide feedback to the contractor on the Government's assessment of the quality of its performance, and establish the basis for making interim award fee payments (see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1816_405_276_T48_60418153113"
                  href="Section_1816_405_276_T48_60418153113.dita#Section_1816_405_276_T48_60418153113">1816.405-276</xref>(a)). These interim evaluations and associated interim award fee payments are superseded by the fee determination made in the final evaluation at contract completion. However, if the final award fee adjectival rating is higher or lower than the average adjectival rating of all the interim award fee periods, or if the final award fee score is eight base percentage points higher or lower than the average award fee score of all interim award fee periods (<i>e.g.</i> 80% to 88%), then the Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA) or the Deputy Chief Acquisition Officer (if the HCA is the Fee Determination Official) shall review and concur in the final award fee determination. The Government will then pay the contractor, or the contractor will refund to the Government, the difference between the final award fee determination and the cumulative interim fee payments.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Control of evaluations.</i> Interim and final evaluations may be used to provide past performance information during the source selection process in future acquisitions and should be marked and controlled as “Source Selection Information - see FAR 3.104”. See FAR 42.1503(h) regarding the requirements for releasing Source Selection Information included in the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS).
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
