<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_236_75_T48_604234411103">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.236-75</ph> Partnering for construction contracts.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1836_7004_T48_6042130411"
                  href="Section_1836_7004_T48_6042130411.dita#Section_1836_7004_T48_6042130411">1836.7004</xref>, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Partnering for Construction Contracts (AUG 1998)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The terms “partnering” and “partnership” used herein shall mean a relationship of open communication and close cooperation that involves both Government and Contractor personnel working together for the purpose of establishing a mutually beneficial, proactive, cooperative environment within which to achieve contract objectives and resolve issues and implementing actions as required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Partnering will be a voluntary commitment mutually agreed upon by at least NASA and the prime contractor, and preferably the subcontractors and the A&amp;E design contractor, if applicable. Sustained commitment to the process is essential to assure success of the relationship.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) NASA intends to facilitate contract management by encouraging the foundation of a cohesive partnership with the Contractor, its subcontractors, the A&amp;E design contractor, and NASA's contract management staff. This partnership will be structured to draw on the strengths of each organization to identify and achieve mutual objectives. The objectives are intended to complete the contract requirements within budget, on schedule, and in accordance with the plans and specifications.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) To implement the partnership, it is anticipated that within 30 days of the Notice to Proceed the prime Contractor's key personnel, its subcontractors, the A&amp;E design contractor, and NASA personnel will attend a partnership development and team building workshop. Follow-up team building workshops will be held periodically throughout the duration of the contract as agreed to by the Government and the Contractor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Any cost with effectuating the partnership will be agreed to in advance by both parties and will be shared with no change in the contract price. The contractor's share of the costs are not recoverable under any other Government award.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
