<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1846_672_1_T48_6042239419">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1846.672-1</ph> Preparation instructions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Dates shall include nine spaces consisting of the four digits of the year, the first three letters of the month, and two digits for the date (<i>e.g.,</i> 2012SEP24).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Addresses shall consist of the name, street address/P.O. box, city, State, and ZIP code.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The data entered in the blocks at the top of DD Form 250C shall be identical to the comparable entries in Blocks 1, 2, 3, and 6 of the DD Form 250.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Overflow data of the DD Form 250 shall be entered in Block 16 or in the body of the DD Form 250c with block cross reference. Additional DD Form 250c sheets solely for continuation of Block 23 data shall not be numbered or distributed as part of the MIRR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Classified information.</i> Do not include classified information on the MIRR. MIRRs must not be classified.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Block 1 - PROCUREMENT INSTRUMENT IDENTIFICATION (CONTRACT NUMBER).</i> Enter the ten-character, alpha-numeric procurement identifier of the contract.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Block 2 - SHIPMENT NO.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The shipment number is a three-alpha character prefix and a four-character numeric or alpha-numeric serial number.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) The prefix shall be controlled and assigned by the prime contractor and shall consist of three alpha characters for each “shipped from” address (Block 11). The prefix shall be different for each “Shipped From” address and shall remain constant throughout the contract period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The serial number for the first shipment under a prime contract from each “shipped from” address shall be 0001; subsequent shipments under that prime contract shall be consecutively numbered. Alpha-numerics shall be used when more than 9,999 numbers are required. Alpha-numerics shall be serially assigned, with the alpha in the first position, followed by the three-position numeric serial number. The alpha-numeric sequence shall be (the letters I and O shall not be used) A001 through A999 (10,001 through 10,999); B001 through B999 (11,001 through 11,999); to Z999. When this series is completely used, numbering shall revert to 0001.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The shipment number of the initial shipment shall be reassigned when a “replacement shipment” is involved (see paragraph (r)(4)(iv) of this section). 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The prime contractor shall control deliveries and on the last shipment of the contract shall suffix the shipment number with a “Z” in addition to that required for line items (see Block 17). If the contract final shipment is from other than the prime contractor's plant, the prime contractor may elect 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) To direct the subcontractor to suffix the “Z” or 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii), On receipt of the subcontractor final shipment information, to correct the DD Form 250 covering the last shipment from the prime contractor's plant by adding a “Z” to that shipment number. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Block 3 - DATE SHIPPED.</i> Enter the date the shipment is released to the carrier or the date of completion of services. If the shipment will be released after the date of CQA and/or acceptance, enter the estimated date of release. When the date is estimated, enter an “E” after it. Distribution of the MIRR shall not be delayed for entry of the actual shipping date. Reissurance of the MIRR is not required to show the actual shipping date. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Block 4 - B/L TCN.</i> When applicable, enter the commercial or Government bill of lading number after “B/L”; and the Transportation Control Number after “TCN.” 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Block 5 - DISCOUNT TERMS.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor may enter the discount in terms of percentages on all copies of the MIRR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) When the MIRR is used as an invoice, see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1846_672_5_T48_60422394113"
                  href="Section_1846_672_5_T48_60422394113.dita#Section_1846_672_5_T48_60422394113">1846.672-5</xref>. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Block 6 - INVOICE.</i> The contractor may enter the invoice number and actual or estimated date on all copies of the MIRR. When the date is estimated, enter an “E” after the date. Do not correct MIRRs to reflect the actual date of invoice submission.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>Block 7 - PAGE/OF.</i> Consecutively number the pages comprising the MIRR. On each page, enter the total number of pages of the MIRR. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(j) <i>Block 8 - ACCEPTANCE POINT.</i> Enter an “S” for origin or “D” for destination as specified in the contract as the point of acceptance.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(k) <i>Block 9 - PRIME CONTRACTOR.</i> Enter the Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code and address.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(l) <i>Block 10 - ADMINISTERED BY.</i> Enter the code and address of the contracting office cited in the contract. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(m) <i>Block 11 - SHIPPED FROM/CODE/FOB.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Enter the code and address of the “shipped from” location. If identical to Block 9, enter “See Block 9.” 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) For performance of services that do not require delivery of items upon completion, enter the code and address of the location at which the services were performed. If the DD Form 250 covers performance at multiple locations or if identical to Block 9, enter “See Block 9.” 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Enter on the same line and to the right of “FOB” an “S” for origin or “D” for destination as specified in the contract. Enter an alphabetic “O” if the FOB point cited in the contract is other than origin or destination. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(n) <i>Block 12 - PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY.</i> Enter the address of the payment office cited in the contract. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(o) <i>Block 13 - SHIPPED TO/CODE.</i> Enter the code and address from the contract or shipping instructions. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(p) <i>Block 14 - MARKED FOR/CODE.</i> Enter the code and address from the contract or shipping instructions. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(q) <i>Block 15 - ITEM NO.</i> Enter the item number used in the contract. If four or fewer digits are used, position them to the left of the vertical dashed line. Where a six-digit identification is used, enter the last two digits to the right of the vertical dashed line. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(r) Block 16 - STOCK/PART NO./DESCRIPTION. 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Enter, as applicable, for each item, using single spacing between each line item, the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The National Stock Number (NSN) or noncatalog number and, if applicable, prefix or suffix. When a number is not provided or it is necessary to supplement the number, include other identification such as the manufacturer's name or Federal Supply Code (as published in Cataloging Handbook H4-1), and part numbers. Additional part numbers may be shown in parentheses. Also enter the descriptive noun of the item nomenclature and, if provided, the Government-assigned management/material control code. In the case of equal-kind supply items, the first entry shall be the description without regard to kind (<i>e.g.,</i> “Resistor”). Below this description, enter the contract item number in Block 15 and stock/part number followed by the size or type in Block 16.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) On the next printing line, if required by the contract for control purposes, enter the make, model, serial number, lot, batch, hazard indicator, and/or similar description. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(iii) On the next printing line, enter the FEDSTRIP requisition number(s) when provided in the contract or shipping instructions. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) For service items, enter the word “SERVICE” followed by a short description of less than 20 characters. Do not complete items 4, 13, and 14 when material is not shipped. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) For all contracts administered by the Defense Contract Management Agency, with the exception of fast pay procedures, enter and complete the following:
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">Gross Shipping Wt._(State weight in pounds only).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(4) Enter on the next line the following as appropriate (entries may be extended through Block 20). When entries apply to more than one item in the MIRR, enter them only once after the last item and reference the applicable item numbers. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Enter in capital letters any special handling instructions/limits for material environmental control (e.g., temperature, humidity, aging, freezing, and shock). 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ii) When an NSN is required by, but not cited in, a contract and has not been furnished by the Government, shipment may be made at the direction of the contracting officer. Enter the authority for the shipment.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(iii) When Government-furnished property (GFP) is included with or incorporated into the line item, enter “GFP”. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(iv) When the shipment consists of replacements for supplies previously furnished, enter in capital letters “REPLACEMENT SHIPMENT” (see paragraph (s)(3) of this section for replacement indicators.) 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(v) For items shipped with missing components, enter and complete the following: “Item(s) shipped short of the following component(s): FSN or comparable identification ____, Quantity ____, Estimated Value ____, Authority ____.” 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(vi) When shipment is made of components that were short on a prior shipment, enter and complete the following: “These components were listed as shortages on Shipment Number ____, date shipped ____.”
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(vii) When shipments involve drums, cylinders, reels, containers, skids, etc., designated as returnable under contract provisions, enter and complete the following: “Return to ____, Quantity ____, Item ____, Ownership (Government/contractor).” 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(viii) Enter shipping container number(s), the type, and the total number of the shipping container(s) included in the shipment. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(ix) The MIRR shall be used to record and report the waivers and deviations from contract specifications, including the source and authority for the waiver or deviation (e.g., the contracting office authorizing the waiver or deviation and the identification of the authorizing document). 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(x) For shipments involving discount terms, enter “DISCOUNT EXPEDITE” in at least one-inch outline-type letters. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(xi) When test/evaluation results are a condition of acceptance and are not available before shipment, the following note shall be entered if the shipment is approved by the contracting officer: “Note: Acceptance and payment are contingent upon receipt of approved test/evaluation results.” The contracting officer will advise (A) the consignee of the results (approval/disapproval) and (B) the contractor to withhold invoicing pending attachment to its invoice of the approved test/evaluation </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(xii) The copy of the DD Form 250 required to support payment for destination acceptance (top copy of the four with shipment) or Alternative Release Procedure (ARP) origin acceptance (additional copy furnished to the Quality Assurance Representative (QAR)) shall be identified by entering “PAYMENT COPY” in approximately one-half-inch outline-type letters with “FORWARD TO BLOCK 12 ADDRESS” in approximately one-quarter-inch letters immediately below. Do not obliterate any other entries. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(xiii) A double line shall be drawn completely across the form following the last entry. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(s) <i>Block 17 - QUANTITY SHIP/REC'D.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Enter the quantity shipped, using the unit of measure indicated in the contract for payment. When a second unit of measure is used for purposes other than payment, enter the appropriate quantity directly below in parentheses. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Enter a “Z” below the first digit of the quantity when the total quantity of the item is delivered, including variations within contract terms; and all shortages on items previously shipped short are delivered. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) If a replacement shipment is involved, enter below the first digit of the quantity the letter “A” top designate first replacement, “B” for second replacement, and so forth. The final shipment indicator “Z” shall not be used when a final line item shipment is replaced. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(t) <i>Block 18 UNIT.</i> Enter the abbreviation of the unit of measure indicated in the contract for payment. When a second unit of measure is indicated in the contract for purposes other than payment or is used for shipping purposes, enter the abbreviation of the second unit of measure directly below in parentheses. Authorized abbreviations are listed in MIL-STD-129, Marking for Shipping and Storage. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(u) <i>Block 19 - UNIT PRICE.</i> Enter the unit price on all NASA copies whenever the MIRR is used for voucher or receiving purposes. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(v) <i>Block 20 - AMOUNT.</i> Enter the extended amount when the unit price is entered in Block 19. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(w) <i>Block 21 - CONTRACT QUALITY ASSURANCE.</i> The words “conform to contract” contained in the printed statements in Blocks A and B relate to contract obligations pertaining to quality and to the quantity of the items on the report. The statements shall not be modified. Notes taking exception shall be entered in Block 16 or on attached supporting documents with block cross reference. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>“A. ORIGIN.”</i>
                                 </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) The authorized Government representative shall - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(A) Place an “X” when applicable in the appropriate CQA and/or acceptance box(es) to evidence origin CQA and/or acceptance. When the contract requires CQA at destination in addition to origin CQA, an asterisk shall be entered at the end of the statement and an explanatory note in Block 16;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(B) Sign and date; and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(C) Enter the typed, stamped, or printed name of the signer and office code.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) <i>“B. DESTINATION.”</i>
                                 </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) When acceptance at origin is indicated in Block 21A, no entries shall be made in Block 21B.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(ii) When acceptance of CQA and acceptance are at destination, the authorized Government representative shall - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(A) Place an “X” in the appropriate box(es);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(B) Sign and date; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(C) Enter the typed, stamped, or printed name of the signer and office code.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(x) <i>Block 22 - RECEIVER'S USE.</i> This block shall be used by the receiving authority (Government or contractor) to denote receipt, quantity, and condition. The receiving activity shall enter in this block the date the supplies arrived. For example, when off-loading or in-checking occurs subsequent to the day of arrival of the carrier at the installation, the date of the carrier's arrival is the date received for purposes of this block.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(y) <i>Block 23 - CONTRACTOR USE ONLY.</i> This block is provided and reserved for contractor use.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
