<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_245_82_T48_604234411130">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.245-82</ph> Occupancy management requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112"
                  href="Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112.dita#Section_1845_107_70_T48_6042238112">1845.107-70</xref>(m), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Occupancy Management Requirements (SEP 2017)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In addition to the requirements of the clause at FAR 52.245-1, Government Property, as included in this contract, the Contractor shall comply with the following in performance of work in and around Government real property:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) NPD 8800.14, Policy for Real Estate Management.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) NPD 8831.2, Facilities Maintenance and Operations Management.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[Insert any additional Center occupancy requirements here]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall obtain the written approval of the Contracting Officer before installing or removing Contractor-owned property onto or into any Government real property or when movement of Contractor-owned property may damage or destroy Government-owned property. The Contractor shall restore damaged property to its original condition at the Contractor's expense.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor shall not acquire, construct or install any fixed improvement or structural alterations in Government buildings or other real property without the advance, written approval of the Contracting Officer. Fixed improvement or structural alterations, as used herein, means any alteration or improvement in the nature of the building or other real property that, after completion, cannot be removed without substantial loss of value or damage to the premises. Title to such property shall vest in the Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor shall report any real property or any portion thereof when it is no longer required for performance under the contract, as directed by the Contracting Officer.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
