<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1816_405_276_T48_60418153113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1816.405-276</ph> Award fee payments and limitations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Interim award fee payments.</i> The amount of an interim award fee payment (see <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1816_405_273_T48_60418153110"
                  href="Section_1816_405_273_T48_60418153110.dita#Section_1816_405_273_T48_60418153110">1816.405-273</xref>(b)) is limited to the lesser of the interim evaluation score or 80 percent of the fee allocated to that interim period less any provisional payments (see paragraph (b) of this subsection) made during the period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Provisional award fee payments.</i> Provisional award fee payments are payments made within evaluation periods prior to an interim or final evaluation for that period. Provisional payments may be included in the contract and should be negotiated on a case-by-case basis. For a service contract, the total amount of award fee available in an evaluation period that may be provisionally paid is the lesser of a percentage stipulated in the contract (but not exceeding 80 percent) or the prior period's evaluation score. For an end item contract, the total amount of provisional payments in a period is limited to a percentage not to exceed 80 percent of the prior interim period's evaluation score, except for the first evaluation period which is limited to 80 percent of the available award fee for that evaluation period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Fee payment.</i> The Fee Determination Official's rating for both interim and final evaluations will be provided to the contractor within 45 calendar days of the end of the period being evaluated. Any fee, interim or final, due the contractor will be paid no later than 60 calendar days after the end of the period being evaluated.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
