<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_246_74_T48_604234411135">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.246-74</ph> Contractor Counterfeit Electronic Part Detection and Avoidance.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1846_7003_T48_6042239514"
                  href="Section_1846_7003_T48_6042239514.dita#Section_1846_7003_T48_6042239514">1846.7003</xref>, use the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Contractor Counterfeit Electronic Part Detection and Avoidance. (DATE)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this clause - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Authentic part” means a new and unmodified part produced by the original component manufacturer, or a source with the express written authority of the original manufacturer or current design activity, including an authorized aftermarket manufacturer.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Authentication” means a process to verify that a part is not counterfeit or suspect counterfeit.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Authorized aftermarket manufacturer” means an organization that fabricates a part under a contract with, or with the express written authority of, the original component manufacturer based on the original component manufacturer's designs, formulas, and/or specifications.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Authorized supplier” means a supplier, distributor, or an aftermarket manufacturer with a contractual arrangement with, or the express written authority of, the original manufacturer or current design activity to buy, stock, repackage, sell, or distribute the part.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Contract manufacturer” means a company that produces goods under contract for another company under the label or brand name of that company.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Contractor-approved supplier” means a supplier that does not have a contractual agreement with the original component manufacturer, but has been qualified by the contractor or subcontractor approved by the contractor or government as having met prescribed counterfeit electronic part detection and avoidance system criteria using established counterfeit prevention industry standards and processes.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Counterfeit electronic part” means an unlawful or unauthorized reproduction, substitution, or alteration that has been knowingly mismarked, misidentified, or otherwise misrepresented to be an authentic, unmodified electronic part from the original manufacturer, or a source with the express written authority of the original manufacturer or current design activity, including an authorized aftermarket manufacturer. Unlawful or unauthorized substitution includes used electronic parts represented as new, or the false identification of grade, serial number, lot number, date code, or performance characteristics.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Electronic part” means a discrete electronic component, including a microcircuit, transistor, capacitor, resistor, or diode, that is intended for use in a safety or mission critical application (section 823 (d)(2) of Pub L. 115-10).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Original component manufacturer” means an organization that designs and/or engineers a part and is entitled to any intellectual property rights to that part.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Original equipment manufacturer” means a company that manufactures products that it has designed from purchased components and sells those products under the company's brand name.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Original manufacturer” means the original component manufacturer, the original equipment manufacturer, or the contract manufacturer.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Suspect counterfeit electronic part” means an electronic part for which credible evidence (including, but not limited to, visual inspection or testing) provides reasonable doubt that the electronic part is authentic.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Sources of electronics parts.</i> In accordance with section 823(c)(3), the NASA Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (Pub. L. 115-10), the covered contractor shall - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Obtain electronic parts that are in production by the original manufacturer or an authorized aftermarket manufacturer or currently available in stock from - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The original manufacturers of the parts;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Their authorized dealers; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Suppliers who obtain such parts exclusively from the original manufacturers of the parts or their authorized dealers;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) If electronic parts are not in production or currently available in stock from suppliers as stated in paragraph (b) of this clause, the covered contractor shall obtain electronic parts from NASA identified suppliers or contractor-approved suppliers for which - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The covered contractor assumes responsibility for the authenticity of parts; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The covered contractor performs inspection, testing and authentication of parts; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The covered contractor obtains traceability information for the electronic parts (<i>e.g.,</i> data code, lot code, serial number) and provides this information to the contracting officer upon request; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The selection of contractor-approved suppliers is subject to review and audit by the contracting officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Notification.</i> The covered contractor, including subcontractors, shall notify the NASA contracting officer in writing not later than 30 calendar days after the date the covered contractor becomes aware, or has reason to suspect, that any end item, component, part or material contained in supplies purchased by NASA, or purchased by a covered contractor or subcontractor for delivery to, or on behalf of, NASA, contains a counterfeit electronic part or suspect counterfeit electronic part.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Costs related to counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts.</i> In accordance with section 823(c)(2)(B), the NASA Transition Authorization Act of 2017 (Pub. L. 115-10), the costs of counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts and the costs of rework or corrective action that may be required to remedy the use or inclusion of such parts are unallowable, unless - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The covered contractor has a system to detect and avoid counterfeit electronic parts and suspect counterfeit electronic parts that has been reviewed and approved by NASA or the Department of Defense pursuant to 48 CFR 244.303; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The covered contractor, including a subcontractor, notifies the applicable NASA contracting officer in writing in accordance with paragraph (c) of this clause; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The counterfeit electronic parts or suspect counterfeit electronic parts were provided to the covered contractor as Government property in accordance with part 45 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Subcontracts.</i> The covered contractor shall insert this clause, including this paragraph (e), in subcontracts for - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Electronic parts;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) End items, components, parts, or assemblies containing electronic parts; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Services where the covered contractor will supply electronic parts or components, parts, or assemblies containing electronic parts as part of the service, including subcontracts for commercial items that are for electronic parts or assemblies containing electronic parts, unless the subcontractor is the original manufacturer. The covered contractor shall not alter the clause other than to identify appropriate parties.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Corrective Action.</i> In the event that the covered contractor supplies a counterfeit electronic part, suspect counterfeit electronic part or end item, component, or assembly containing a counterfeit electronic part to NASA, the covered contractor shall take such corrective actions as the Administrator considers necessary to remedy the use or inclusion of additional counterfeit electronic parts, suspect counterfeit electronic part or end items, components, or assemblies containing a counterfeit electronic part.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
