<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_223_74_T48_60423441158">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.223-74</ph> Drug- and alcohol-free workforce.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1823_570_2_T48_6041919213"
                  href="Section_1823_570_2_T48_6041919213.dita#Section_1823_570_2_T48_6041919213">1823.570-2</xref>, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workforce (NOV 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Definitions.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Employee in a sensitive position</i> means a contractor or subcontractor employee who has been granted access to classified information; a contractor or subcontractor employee in other positions that the contractor or subcontractor determines could reasonably be expected to affect safety, security, National security, or functions other than the foregoing requiring a high degree of trust and confidence; and includes any employee performing in a position designated mission critical or performing mission critical duties. The term also includes any applicant who is tentatively selected for a position described in this paragraph.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Mission Critical Space Systems</i> means the collection of all space-based and ground-based systems used to conduct space missions or support activity in space, including, but not limited to, the crewed space system, space-based communication and navigation systems, launch systems, and mission/launch control.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Mission Critical Positions/Duties</i> means positions or duties which, if performed in a faulty, negligent, or malicious manner, could jeopardize mission critical space systems and/or delay a mission.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall institute and maintain a program for achieving a drug- and alcohol-free workforce. As a minimum, the program shall provide for pre-employment, reasonable suspicion, random, post-accident, and periodic recurring (follow-up) testing of contractor employees in sensitive positions for use, in violation of applicable law or Federal regulation, of alcohol or a controlled substance. The Contractor may establish its testing or rehabilitation program in cooperation with other contractors or organizations.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) In determining which positions to designate as “sensitive,” the contractor may use the guidelines for determining testing designated positions in NASA Procedural Requirements (NPR) 3792.1, NASA's Plan for a Drug Free Workplace, as a guide for the criteria and in designating “sensitive” positions for contractor employees.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) This clause neither prohibits nor requires the Contractor to test employees in a foreign country. If the Contractor chooses to conduct such testing, this does not authorize the Contractor to violate foreign law in conducting such testing.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Contractor's program shall conform to the “Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs” published by the Department of Health and Human Services (73 FR 71858) and the procedures in 49 CFR part 40, “Procedures for Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The Contractor shall test for the following drugs: Marijuana, Cocaine, Amphetamines, Opiates and Phencyclidine (PCP) in accordance with the Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs Mandatory Guidelines, Section 3.1, and 49 CFR 40.85.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The contractor shall comply with the requirements and procedures for alcohol testing at 49 CFR part 40.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The use of a controlled substance in accordance with the terms of a valid prescription, or other uses authorized by law shall not be subject to the requirements this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) The contractor shall conduct post-accident testing when the contractor determines the employee's actions are reasonably suspected of having caused or contributed to an accident resulting in death or personal injury requiring immediate hospitalization or damage to Government or private property estimated to exceed $20,000. Upon request, the Contractor shall provide the results of post-accident testing to the Contracting Officer.</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor's program shall provide, where appropriate, for the suspension, disqualification, or dismissal of any employee in a sensitive position in any instance where a test conducted and confirmed under the Contractor's program indicates that such individual has used, in violation of applicable law or Federal regulation, alcohol or a controlled substance.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor's program shall further prohibit any such individual from working in a sensitive position on a NASA contract, unless such individual has completed a program of rehabilitation described in paragraph (d) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Contractor's program shall further prohibit any such individual from working in any sensitive position on a NASA contract if the individual is determined under the Contractor's program to have used, in violation of applicable law or Federal regulation, alcohol or a controlled substance and the individual meets any of the following criteria:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The individual had undertaken or completed a rehabilitation program described in paragraph (d) of this clause prior to such use;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Following such determination, the individual refuses to undertake such a rehabilitation program;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Following such determination, the individual fails to complete such a rehabilitation program; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The individual used a controlled substance or alcohol while on duty.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor shall institute and maintain an appropriate rehabilitation program which shall, as a minimum, provide for the identification and opportunity for treatment of employees whose duties include responsibility for safety-sensitive, security, or National security functions who are in need of assistance in resolving problems with the use of alcohol or controlled substances.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The requirements of this clause shall take precedence over any state or local Government laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, standards, or orders that are inconsistent with the requirements of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) For any collective bargaining agreement, the Contractor will negotiate the terms of its program with employee representatives, as appropriate, under labor relations laws or negotiated agreements. Such negotiation, however, cannot change the requirements of this clause. Employees covered under collective bargaining agreements will not be subject to the requirements of this clause until those agreements have been modified, as necessary; provided, however, that if one year after commencement of negotiation the parties have failed to reach agreement, an impasse will be determined to have been reached and the Contractor will unilaterally implement the requirements of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The Contractor shall insert a clause containing all the terms of this clause, including this paragraph (g), in all subcontracts in which work is performed by an employee in a sensitive position, except subcontracts for commercial items (see FAR parts 2 and 12).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
