<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_270_4a_T48_4018362136">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.270-4</ph>a Notice to Offerors, Protection of Human Subjects.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 370.303(a), the Contracting Officer shall insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Notice to Offerors, Protection of Human Subjects (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) regulations for the protection of human subjects, 45 CFR part 46, are available on the Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) Web site at: <i>http://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/index.html</i>.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">These regulations provide a systematic means, based on established ethical principles, to safeguard the rights and welfare of human subjects participating in research activities supported or conducted by HHS.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The regulations define a human subject as a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research obtains data or identifiable public information through intervention or interaction with the individual, or identifiable private information. In most cases, the regulations extend to the use of human organs, tissue, and body fluids from individually identifiable human subjects as well as to graphic, written, or recorded information derived from individually identifiable human subjects. 45 CFR part 46 does not directly regulate the use of autopsy materials; instead, applicable state and local laws govern their use.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Activities which involve human subjects in one or more of the categories set forth in 45 CFR 46.101(b)(1)-(6) are exempt from complying with 45 CFR part 46. See <i>http://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/humansubjects/guidance/45cfr46.html</i>.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Inappropriate designations of the noninvolvement of human subjects or of exempt categories of research in a project may result in delays in the review of a proposal.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) In accordance with 45 CFR part 46, offerors considered for award shall file an acceptable Federal-wide Assurance (FWA) of compliance with OHRP specifying review procedures and assigning responsibilities for the protection of human subjects. The FWA is the only type of assurance that OHRP accepts or approves. The initial and continuing review of a research project by an institutional review board shall ensure that: The risks to subjects are minimized; risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits, if any, to subjects, and the importance of the knowledge that may reasonably be expected to result; selection of subjects is equitable; and informed consent will be obtained and documented by methods that are adequate and appropriate. Depending on the nature of the research, additional requirements may apply; see <i>http://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/humansubjects/guidance/45cfr46.html#46.111</i> for additional requirements regarding initial and continuing review. HHS regulations for the protection of human subjects (45 CFR part 46), information regarding OHRP registration and assurance requirements/processes, and OHRP contact information is available at the OHRP Web site (at <i>http://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/assurances/index.html</i>).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Offerors may consult with OHRP only for general advice or guidance concerning either regulatory requirements or ethical issues pertaining to research involving human subjects. ONLY the contracting officer may offer information concerning a solicitation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The offeror shall document in its proposal the approved FWA from OHRP, related to the designated Institutional Review Board (IRB) reviewing and overseeing the research. If the offeror does not have an approved FWA from OHRP, the offeror must obtain an FWA before the deadline for proposal submission. When possible, the offeror shall also certify the IRB's review and approval of the research. If the offeror cannot obtain this certification by the time of proposal submission they must include an explanation in their proposal. Never conduct research covered by 45 CFR part 46 prior to receiving certification of the research's review and approval by the IRB.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I (DEC 2015).</i>
                                 </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 370.303(a), the Contracting Officer shall substitute the following paragraph (g) for paragraph (g) of the basic clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The offeror's proposal shall document that it has an approved or active FWA from OHRP, related to the designated IRB reviewing and overseeing the research. When possible the offeror shall also certify the IRB has reviewed and approved the research. If the offeror cannot make this certification at the time of proposal submission, its proposal must include an explanation. Never conduct research covered by 45 CFR part 46 prior to receiving certification of the research's review and approval by the IRB.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">If the offeror does not have an active FWA from OHRP, the offeror shall take all necessary steps to obtain an FWA prior to the deadline for proposal submission. If the offeror cannot obtain an FWA before the proposal submission date, the proposal shall indicate the steps/actions the offeror will take to obtain OHRP approval within <i>(Contracting Officer must insert a time period in which the FWA must be obtained).</i> Upon obtaining FWA approval, submit the approval notice to the Contracting Officer.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
