<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_237_71_T48_4018362129">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.237-71</ph> Crime Control Act - Reporting of Child Abuse.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 337.103(d)(2), the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Crime Control Act of 1990 - Reporting of Child Abuse (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Public Law 101-647, also known as the Crime Control Act of 1990 (Act), imposes responsibilities on certain individuals who, while engaged in a professional capacity or activity, as defined in the Act, on Federal land or in a federally-operated (or contracted) facility, learn of facts that give the individual reason to suspect that a child has suffered an incident of child abuse.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Act designates “covered professionals” as those persons engaged in professions and activities in eight different categories including, but not limited to, teachers, social workers, physicians, dentists, medical residents or interns, hospital personnel and administrators, nurses, health care practitioners, chiropractors, osteopaths, pharmacists, optometrists, podiatrists, emergency medical technicians, ambulance drivers, alcohol or drug treatment personnel, psychologists, psychiatrists, mental health professionals, child care workers and administrators, and commercial film and photo processors. The Act defines the term “child abuse” as the physical or mental injury, sexual abuse or exploitation, or negligent treatment of a child.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Accordingly, any person engaged in a covered profession or activity under an HHS contract or subcontract, regardless of the purpose of the contract or subcontract, shall immediately report a suspected child abuse incident in accordance with the provisions of the Act. If a child is suspected of being harmed, the appropriate State Child Abuse Hotline, local child protective services (CPS), or law enforcement agency shall be contacted. For more information about where and how to file a report, the Childhelp USA, National Child Abuse Hotline (1-800-4-A-CHILD) shall be called. Any covered professional failing to make a timely report of such incident shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) By acceptance of this contract or order, the Contractor agrees to comply with the requirements of the Act. The Act also applies to all applicable subcontracts awarded under this contract. Accordingly, the Contractor shall ensure that each of its employees, and any subcontractor staff, is made aware of, understands, and complies with the provisions of the Act.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
