<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_270_5a_T48_4018362139">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.270-5</ph>a Notice to Offerors of Requirement for Compliance with the Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 370.403(a), the Contracting Officer shall insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Notice to Offerors of Requirement for Compliance with the Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The Public Health Service (PHS) Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (PHS Policy) establishes a number of requirements for research activities involving animals. Before awarding a contract to an offeror, the organization shall file, with the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW), National Institutes of Health (NIH), a written Animal Welfare Assurance (Assurance) which commits the organization to comply with the provisions of the PHS Policy, the Animal Welfare Act, and the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (National Academy Press, Washington, DC). In accordance with the PHS Policy, offerors must establish an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), qualified through the experience and expertise of its members, to oversee the institution's animal program, facilities, and procedures. Offerors must provide verification of IACUC approval prior to receiving an award involving live vertebrate animals. No award involving the use of animals shall be made unless OLAW approves the Assurance and verification of IACUC approval for the proposed animal activities has been provided to the Contracting Officer. Prior to award, the Contracting Officer will notify Contractor(s) selected for projects involving live vertebrate animals of the Assurance and verification of IACUC approval requirement. The Contracting Officer will request that OLAW negotiate an acceptable Assurance with those Contractor(s) and request verification of IACUC approval. For further information, contact OLAW at NIH, 6705 Rockledge Drive, RKL1, Suite 360, MSC 7982 Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7982 (Email: <i>olaw@od.nih.gov</i>; Phone: 301-496-7163).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
