<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_370_402_T48_4011038313">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">370.402</ph> Assurances.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Animal Welfare Assurances may be one of three types:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Domestic Assurance (DA).</i> A DA describes the institution's animal care and use program, including but not limited to the lines of authority and responsibility, veterinary care, IACUC composition and procedures, occupational health and safety, training, facilities, and species housed. A DA listed in OLAW's list of institutions with an approved DA is acceptable for purposes of this policy.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Inter-institutional Assurance (IA).</i> The offeror, its proposed subcontractor, or institution shall submit an IA when it does not have a proprietary animal care and use program, facilities to house animals or IACUC, and does not conduct animal research on-site. The offeror will perform the animal activity at an institution with an Animal Welfare Assurance named as a performance site. An IA approval extends to the full period of contract performance (up to 5 years) limited to the specific award or single project.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Foreign Assurance (FA).</i> The Foreign Assurance is required for institutions outside the U.S. that receive PHS funds directly through a contract award. The Foreign Assurance also applies to institutions outside the U.S. that receive PHS funds indirectly (named as a performance site). An FA listed in OLAW's list of institutions with an approved FA is acceptable for purposes of this policy.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting officer shall forward copies of proposals selected for negotiation and requiring an assurance to OLAW at <i>olawdoa@od.nih.gov</i>, as early as possible to secure the necessary assurances.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) A contractor providing animal care services at an institution with an Animal Welfare Assurance, such as a Government-owned, Contractor-operated (GOCO) site, does not need a separate assurance. GOCO site assurances normally cover such contractor services.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
