<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_339_203_T48_401634211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">339.203</ph> Applicability.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Electronic and information technology (EIT) supplies and services must comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (the Act) of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, and the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Access Board) Electronic and Information Accessibility Standards (36 CFR part 1194). Requiring activities must consult with their Section 508 Official or designee to determine if the contractor should be responsible for compliance with EIT accessibility standards which apply to Web site content and communications material.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) When conducting a procurement and employing the best value continuum, the solicitation shall include a separate technical evaluation factor developed by the contracting officer, requiring activity, and the Operating Division (OPDIV) Section 508 Official or designee.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) At a minimum, solicitations for supplies and services shall require the submission of a Section 508 Product Assessment Template (See <i>http://www.hhs.gov/web/508</i> for the template). Solicitations for services shall include any other pertinent information that the contracting officer deems necessary to evaluate the offeror's ability to meet the applicable Section 508 accessibility standards.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The HHS Operating Division or Staff Division (OPDIV or STAFFDIV) Section 508 Official or designee is responsible for providing technical assistance in development of Section 508 evaluation factors.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Before conducting negotiations or making an award, the contracting officer shall provide a summary of the Source Selection Evaluation Team's (SSET) assessment of offeror responses to the solicitation's Section 508 evaluation factor. This summary shall be submitted for review by the Section 508 Official or designee. The Section 508 Official or designee shall indicate approval or disapproval of the SSET assessment. The contracting officer shall coordinate the resolution of any issues raised by the Section 508 Official or designee with the chair of the SSET or requiring activity representative, as appropriate. The acquisition process shall not proceed until the Section 508 Official or designee approves the SSET assessment. The contracting officer shall include the assessment in the official contract file. See 339.204-1 regarding processing exception determination requests.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) When acquiring commercial items, if no commercially available supplies or services meet all of the applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, OPDIVs or STAFFDIVs shall, under the direction and approval of the Section 508 Official or designee, acquire the supplies and services that best meet the applicable Section 508 accessibility standards. Process exception determinations for EIT supplies and services not meeting applicable Section 508 accessibility standards in accordance with 339.204-1.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
