<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_237_73_T48_4018362130">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.237-73</ph> Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Act.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 337.103(d)(4) the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Act (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This contract is subject to the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Act, Public Law 101-630 (25 U.S.C. 3201 <i>et seq.</i>) The duties and responsibilities required by this contract may involve regular contact with or control over Indian children. Public Law 101-630 prohibits employment, including Personal Service Contracts, with anyone who has been convicted of any crime of violence. Any such conviction should immediately be brought to the attention of the Contracting Officer. The contractor will be subject to a character investigation, conducted by the Indian Health Service, Office of Human Resources. Until such time as the contractor has been notified of completion of the investigation, the contractor shall have no unsupervised contact with Indian children. In order to initiate this background investigation, the contractor must provide information as required in this contract or as directed by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) As a prerequisite to providing services under this contract, the Contractor is required to complete and sign the declaration found in Section J of this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
