<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_339_205_T48_401634215">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">339.205</ph> Section 508 accessibility standards for contracts.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794(d)), as amended by the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (Section 508), specifies the applicable accessibility standards for all new solicitations and new or existing contracts or orders, regardless of EIT dollar amount.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The requiring activity shall consult with the OPDIV or STAFFDIV Section 508 Official or designee, as necessary, to determine the applicability of Section 508, identify applicable Section 508 accessibility standards, and resolve any related issues before forwarding a request to the contracting or procurement office for the acquisition of EIT supplies and services - including Web site content and communications material for which the contractor must meet EIT accessibility standards.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Based on those discussions, the requiring activity shall provide a statement in the AP (or other acquisition request document) for Section 508 applicability. See 307.105. If Section 508 applies to an acquisition, include the provision at 352.239-73, Electronic and Information Technology and Accessibility Notice, language in a separate, clearly designated, section of the statement of work or performance work statement, along with any additional information applicable to the acquisition's Section 508 accessibility standards (e.g., the list of applicable accessibility standards of the Access Board EIT Accessibility Standards (36 CFR part 1194)). If an AP does not address Section 508 applicability and it appears an acquisition involves Section 508, or if the discussion of Section 508 applicability to the acquisition is inadequate or incomplete, the contracting officer shall request the requiring activity modify the AP accordingly.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Items provided incidental to contract administration are not subject to this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The OPDIV Section 508 Official or designee may, at his or her discretion, require review and approval of solicitations and contracts for EIT supplies and services.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
