<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_226_1_T48_4018362116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.226-1</ph> Indian Preference.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 326.505(a), the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Indian Preference (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor agrees to give preference in employment opportunities under this contract to Indians who can perform required work, regardless of age (subject to existing laws and regulations), sex, religion, or tribal affiliation. To the extent feasible and consistent with the efficient performance of this contract, the Contractor further agrees to give preference in employment and training opportunities under this contract to Indians who are not fully qualified to perform regardless of age (subject to existing laws and regulations), sex, religion, or tribal affiliation. The Contractor also agrees to give preference to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises in the awarding of any subcontracts to the extent feasible and consistent with the efficient performance of this contract. The Contractor shall maintain the necessary statistical records to demonstrate compliance with this paragraph.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) In connection with the Indian employment preference requirements of this clause, the Contractor shall provide reasonable opportunities for training, incident to such employment. Such training shall include on-the-job, classroom, or apprenticeship training designed to increase the vocational effectiveness of an Indian employee.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) If the Contractor is unable to fill its employment and training opportunities after giving full consideration to Indians as required by this clause, the Contractor may satisfy those needs by selecting non-Indian persons in accordance with the clause of this contract entitled “Equal Opportunity.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If no Indian organizations or Indian-owned economic enterprises are available under reasonable terms and conditions, including price, for awarding of subcontracts in connection with the work performed under this contract, the Contractor agrees to comply with the provisions of this contract involving utilization of small businesses; HUBZone small businesses; service-disabled, veteran-owned small businesses; 8(a) small businesses; veteran-owned small businesses; women-owned small businesses; or small disadvantaged businesses.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) As used in this clause,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Indian</i> means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe. If the Contractor has reason to doubt that a person seeking employment preference is an Indian, the Contractor shall grant the preference but shall require the individual provide evidence within 30 days from the tribe concerned that the person is a member of the tribe.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Indian tribe</i> means an Indian tribe, pueblo, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601) which the United States recognizes as eligible for the special programs and services provided to Indians because of its status as Indians.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Indian organization</i> means the governing body of any Indian Tribe or entity established or recognized by such governing body in accordance with the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 77; 25 U.S.C. 1451).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Indian-owned economic enterprise</i> means any Indian-owned commercial, industrial, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit, provided that such Indian ownership shall constitute not less than 51 percent of the enterprise, and that ownership shall encompass active operation and control of the enterprise.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The Contractor agrees to include the provisions of this clause, including this paragraph (f) of this clause, in each subcontract awarded at any tier under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) In the event of noncompliance with this clause, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract in whole or in part or may pursue any other remedies authorized by law or by other provisions of the contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
