<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_204_70_T48_401836212">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.204-70</ph> Prevention and Public Health Fund - Reporting Requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 304.7201, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Prevention and Public Health Fund - Reporting Requirements (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Pursuant to public law this contract requires the contractor to provide products or services or both that are funded from the Prevention and Public Health Fund (PPHF), Public Law 111-148, sec. 4002. Section 220(b)(5) requires each contractor to report on its use of these funds under this contract. These reports will be made available to the public.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Semi-annual reports from the Contractor for all work funded, in whole or in part, by the PPHF, are due no later than 20 days following the end of each 6-month period. The 6-month reporting periods are January through June and July through December. The first report is due no later than 20 days after the end of the 6-month period following contract award. Subsequent reports are due no later than 20 days after the end of each reporting period. If applicable, the Contractor shall submit its final report for the remainder of the contract period no later than 20 days after the end of the reporting period in which the contract ended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor shall provide the following information in an electronic and Section 508 compliant format to the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Government contract and order number, as applicable.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The amount of PPHF funds invoiced by the contractor for the reporting period and the cumulative amount invoiced for the contract or order.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) A list of all significant services performed or supplies delivered, including construction, for which the contractor invoiced in the reporting period.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Program or project title, if any.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) The Contractor shall report any subcontract funded in whole or in part with PPHF funding, that is valued at $25,000 or more. The Contractor shall advise the subcontractor that the information will be made available to the public. The Contractor shall report:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Name and address of the subcontractor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Amount of the subcontract award.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Date of the subcontract award.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) A description of the products or services (including construction) being provided under the subcontract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
