<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_211_3_T48_401836216">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.211-3</ph> Paperwork Reduction Act.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 311.7301, the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Paperwork Reduction Act (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This contract involves a requirement to collect or record information calling either for answers to identical questions from 10 or more persons other than Federal employees, or information from Federal employees which is outside the scope of their employment, for use by the Federal government or disclosure to third parties; therefore, the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501 <i>et seq.</i>) shall apply to this contract. No plan, questionnaire, interview guide or other similar device for collecting information (whether repetitive or single time) may be used without the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) first providing clearance. Contractors and the Contracting Officer's Representative shall be guided by the provisions of 5 CFR part 1320, Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public, and seek the advice of the HHS operating division or Office of the Secretary Reports Clearance Officer to determine the procedures for acquiring OMB clearance.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall not expend any funds or begin any data collection until the Contracting Officer provides the Contractor with written notification authorizing the expenditure of funds and the collection of data. The Contractor shall allow at least 120 days for OMB clearance. The Contracting Officer will consider excessive delays caused by the Government which arise out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor in accordance with the Excusable Delays or Default clause of this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
