<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_270_11_T48_4018362144">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.270-11</ph> Protection of Human Subjects - Research Involving Human Subjects Committee (RIHSC) Approval of Research Protocols Required.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 370.304(c), the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Protection of Human Subjects - Research Involving Human Subjects Committee (RIHSC) Approval of Research Protocols Required (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor agrees to protect the rights and welfare of human subjects involved in research under this contract by complying with 45 CFR part 46 and the clause at HHSAR 352.270-4b.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Initial proof of compliance with 45 CFR part 46 shall consist of:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) A copy of a current Federal-wide Assurance on file with OHRP. The copy of a current Federal-wide Assurance shall be included with the Contractor's proposal;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) A letter from the Contractor's local IRB (the Institutional Review Board (IRB) specified in the Offeror's Assurance of Compliance) stating that it has reviewed and approved the proposed research protocol. The letter from the local IRB shall be submitted to the Contracting Office; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) A copy of a letter from the RIHSC stating that it or its designee has reviewed and approved the proposed research protocol. This shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer within three business days of its issuance.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The Contractor shall not advertise for, recruit, or enroll human subjects, or otherwise commence any research involving human subjects under this contract, until RIHSC has reviewed and approved its research. The Contractor may commence other limited aspects of contract performance prior to receiving RIHSC or its designee approval of its proposed research protocol. Research involving human subjects may commence immediately upon the Contractor's receipt of RIHSC or its designee approval; however, the Contractor shall submit a copy of RIHSC's or its designee's letter of approval to the Contracting Officer within three business days of its receipt.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Failure to obtain RIHSC or its designee approval of proposed research protocols may result in the termination of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor further agrees that:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Contractor will provide a letter from RIHSC, at least annually, stating that RIHSC or its designee has reviewed and approved the research protocols for research performed under this contract. This shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer for inclusion in the contract file.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor will submit all proposed modifications and amendments to research protocols for research performed under this contract to RIHSC for review and approval. Modifications and amendments include, but are not limited, to changes to consent forms and advertising materials, and the addition or deletion of investigators. Changes may be instituted immediately after the Contractor has received both the local IRB and RIHSC or its designee approval (except when necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to the subject); however the Contractor shall submit a copy of the letter evidencing RIHSC's or its designee's approval of the proposed changes to the Contracting Officer within three business days of its receipt.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
