<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_223_70_T48_4018362112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.223-70</ph> Safety and Health.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 323.7002, the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Safety and Health (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) To help ensure the protection of the life and health of all persons, and to help prevent damage to property, the Contractor shall comply with all Federal, State, and local laws and regulations applicable to the work being performed under this contract. These laws are implemented or enforced by the Environmental Protection Agency, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and other regulatory/enforcement agencies at the Federal, State, and local levels.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) In addition, the Contractor shall comply with the following regulations when developing and implementing health and safety operating procedures and practices for both personnel and facilities involving the use or handling of hazardous materials and the conduct of research, development, or test projects:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne pathogens; 29 CFR 1910.1450, Occupational exposure to hazardous chemicals in laboratories; and other applicable occupational health and safety standards issued by OSHA and included in 29 CFR part 1910. These regulations are available at <i>https://www.osha.gov/</i>.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Nuclear Regulatory Commission Standards and Regulations, pursuant to the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5801 <i>et seq.</i>). The Contractor may obtain copies from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The following Government guidelines are recommended for developing and implementing health and safety operating procedures and practices for both personnel and facilities:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories, CDC. This publication is available at <i>http://www.cdc.gov/biosafety/publications/index.htm</i>.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Prudent Practices for Safety in Laboratories (1995), National Research Council, National Academy Press, 500 Fifth Street NW., Lockbox 285, Washington, DC 20055 (ISBN 0-309-05229-7). This publication is available at <i>http://www.nap.edu/catalog/4911/prudent-practices-in-the-laboratory-handling-and-disposal-of-chemicals</i>.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Further, the Contractor shall take or cause to be taken additional safety measures as the Contracting Officer, in conjunction with the Contracting Officer's Representative or other appropriate officials, determines to be reasonably necessary. If compliance with these additional safety measures results in an increase or decrease in the cost or time required for performance of any part of work under this contract, the Contracting Officer will make an equitable adjustment in accordance with the applicable “Changes” clause set forth in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor shall maintain an accurate record of, and promptly report to the Contracting Officer, all accidents or incidents resulting in the exposure of persons to toxic substances, hazardous materials or hazardous operations; the injury or death of any person; or damage to property incidental to work performed under the contract resulting from toxic or hazardous materials and resulting in any or all violations for which the Contractor has been cited by any Federal, State or local regulatory/enforcement agency. The report citing all accidents or incidents resulting in the exposure of persons to toxic substances, hazardous materials or hazardous operations; the injury or death of any person; or damage to property incidental to work performed under the contract resulting from toxic or hazardous materials and resulting in any or all violations for which the Contractor has been cited shall include a copy of the notice of violation and the findings of any inquiry or inspection, and an analysis addressing the impact these violations may have on the work remaining to be performed. The report shall also state the required action(s), if any, to be taken to correct any violation(s) noted by the Federal, State, or local regulatory/enforcement agency and the time frame allowed by the agency to accomplish the necessary corrective action.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If the Contractor fails or refuses to comply with the Federal, State or local regulatory/enforcement agency's directive(s) regarding any violation(s) and prescribed corrective action(s), the Contracting Officer may issue an order stopping all or part of the work until satisfactory corrective action (as approved by the Federal, State, or local regulatory/enforcement agencies) has been taken and documented to the Contracting Officer. No part of the time lost due to any such stop work order shall form the basis for a request for extension or costs or damages by the Contractor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause in each subcontract involving toxic substances, hazardous materials, or hazardous operations. The Contractor is responsible for the compliance of its subcontractors with the provisions of this clause.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
