<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_846_702_70_T48_5021539411">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">846.702-70</ph> Guarantee period services and specifications.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Guarantee period of services are associated with preserving and protecting a specified piece of contractor-installed equipment that is guaranteed under a construction contract. Specifications for certain high-dollar or traditionally troublesome equipment are designed to allow for the original installer of the equipment to service the equipment throughout the guaranty period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Guarantee period services are not the same as the 1-year general construction guaranty clause found at FAR clause 52.246-21, Warranty of Construction.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contracting officer may determine, when in the best interest of VA that guarantee period services, not to exceed a period of 5 years, are appropriate to protect the integrity of the installed equipment and ensure that the equipment performs as guaranteed.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) When the determination is made under paragraph (c) of this section, the contracting officer shall include the guarantee period of services as a separately priced contract line item number (CLIN) in solicitations and contracts.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 852.246-75, Warranty of Construction - Guarantee Period Services, in solicitations and contracts for construction that include the FAR clause 52.246-21, Warranty of Construction, and that also include guarantee period services.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) In accordance with the approved VA specifications, the following types of equipment contain the guarantee period services specifications. The following represents a sampling of these specifications.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Division 14 - Conveying Equipment.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Electric Dumbwaiters Geared Traction and Winding Drum (VA 14 12 11).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Electric Traction Elevators (VA 14 21 00).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Traction Cartlift (VA 14 21 11).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Hydraulic Elevators (VA 14 24 00).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v) Hydraulic Cartlift (VA 14 24 11).
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Division 27 - Communications.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Public Address and Mass Notification Systems (VA 27 51 16).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Intercommunication and Program Systems (VA 27 51 23).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) The construction contractor shall require the original installer of the equipment, which is normally a subcontractor, to provide the guarantee period services.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
