<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_219_71_T48_50216422131">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.219-71</ph> VA mentor-protégé program.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 819.7115(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">VA Mentor-Protégé Program (DEC 2009)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Large businesses are encouraged to participate in the VA Mentor-Protégé Program for the purpose of providing developmental assistance to eligible service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses and veteran-owned small businesses to enhance the small businesses' capabilities and increase their participation as VA prime contractors and as subcontractors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The program consists of:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Mentor firms, which are contractors capable of providing developmental assistance;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Protégé firms, which are service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns or veteran-owned small business concerns; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Mentor-Protégé Agreements approved by the VA Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Mentor participation in the program means providing business developmental assistance to aid protégés in developing the requisite expertise to effectively compete for and successfully perform VA prime contracts and subcontracts.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Large business prime contractors serving as mentors in the VA Mentor-Protégé Program are eligible for an incentive for subcontracting plan credit. VA will recognize the costs incurred by a mentor firm in providing assistance to a protégé firm and apply those costs for purposes of determining whether the mentor firm attains its subcontracting plan participation goals under a VA contract. The amount of credit given to a mentor firm for these protégé developmental assistance costs shall be calculated on a dollar-for-dollar basis and reported by the large business prime contractor via the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Contractors interested in participating in the program are encouraged to contact the VA Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization for more information.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
