<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_846_370_2_T48_5021539213">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">846.370-2</ph> Frozen processed foods.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 852.246-72, Frozen Processed Foods, in solicitations and contracts for frozen processed foods.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following frozen processed food products must contain a label that complies with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301), which requires all ingredients be listed in accordance with their predominance order:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Frozen processed food products that contain meat, poultry, or a significant proportion of eggs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Frozen processed food products that contain fish or fish products.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Frozen bakery products.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) All procured frozen processed food products that contain meat, poultry or a significant proportion of eggs must meet the following requirements:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The products must be processed or prepared in plants operating under the supervision of the Department of Agriculture (USDA).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The product must be inspected and approved in accordance with USDA regulations governing meat, poultry, or egg inspection. A label or seal that indicates compliance with USDA regulations, affixed to the container, will be accepted as evidence of compliance.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) All procured frozen processed food products that contain fish or fish products must meet the following requirements:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The product must be processed or prepared in plants or vessels, sanitarily inspected, approved, and certified by the United States Department of Commerce (USDC). The products are listed in USDC's publication “USDC Approved Establishments” under U.S. Establishments Approved for Sanitation and for Producing USDC Inspected Fishery Products. The inspected products packed under various labels bearing the brand names are produced in accordance with current U.S. Grade Standards or official product specifications, packed under optimum hygienic conditions, and must meet Federal, State, and city sanitation and health regulations. Such brand label or USDC seal indicating compliance with USDC regulations, affixed to a container, will be accepted as evidence of compliance.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If the conditions in paragraph (d)(1) of this section were not met (<i>e.g.,</i> no seal), the shipment may be lot-inspected by the USDC and containers stamped to indicate acceptance or a Certification of Inspection issued to accompany the shipment.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Producers of frozen bakery products that ship products in interstate commerce are required to comply with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Therefore, the product must be verified as shipped interstate or that the producer ships products to other purchasers interstate.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
