<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_806_570_T48_502107212">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">806.570</ph> Planning requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Each Contracting Activity Competition Advocate must do the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Develop a Competition Plan.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Incorporate the Plan in the internal operating procedures of the facility or organization in which the contracting activity is located.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Obtain the endorsement and support of the facility or staff office director.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Ensure that the services and offices that the contracting activity supports understand the plan.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) At a minimum, the Competition Plan must include the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Approval requirements for other than full and open competition specified in FAR 6.304.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A description of the synopsis requirements in FAR subpart 5.2 to ensure that responsible staff fully understand the advance procurement planning that is required.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A description of how to integrate the Competition Plan into advance procurement planning.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) A listing of obstacles to competition and a proposal for overcoming them.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) A method for increasing cost competition for contracts and competition on other significant factors. 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
