<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_273_73_T48_50216422194">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.273-73</ph> Evaluation - Health-Care Resources.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 873.110(d), in lieu of FAR provision 52.212-2, the Contracting Officer may insert a provision substantially as follows:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Evaluation - Health-Care Resources (NOV 2021)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror whose proposal, conforming to the solicitation, will be most advantageous to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following information or factors shall be used to evaluate offers: [<i>Contracting Officer insert evaluation information or factors, such as technical capability to meet the Government's requirements, past performance, or such other evaluation information or factors as the Contracting Officer deems necessary to evaluate offers. Price must be evaluated in every acquisition. The Contracting Officer may include the evaluation information or factors in their relative order of importance, such as in descending order of importance. The relative importance of any evaluation information must be stated in the solicitation.</i>]
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) Except when it is determined not to be in the Government's best interest, the Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are materially unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). The Government may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the Government's interest. Additionally, the Government may waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) If this solicitation is a request for proposals (RFP), a written notice of award or acceptance of a proposal, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful Offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received by the Contracting Officer before award.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
