<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_7106_T48_5021219816">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.7106</ph> Eligibility of Mentor and Protégé firms.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Eligible business entities approved as mentors may enter into agreements (hereafter referred to as “Mentor-Protégé Agreement” or “Agreement” and explained in 819.7108) with eligible protégés. Mentors provide appropriate developmental assistance to enhance the capabilities of protégés to perform as contractors and/or subcontractors. Eligible small business entities capable of providing developmental assistance may be approved as mentors. Protégés may participate in the program in pursuit of a prime contract or as subcontractors under the mentor's prime contract with VA, but are not required to be a subcontractor to a VA prime contractor or be a VA prime contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Eligibility.</i> A Mentor:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) May be either a large or small business entity and either a prime contractor or subcontractor;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Must be able to provide developmental assistance that will enhance the ability of Protégés to perform as prime contractors or subcontractors; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Will be encouraged to enter into arrangements with entities with which it has established business relationships.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Eligibility.</i> A Protégé:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Must be a SDVOSB or VOSB as defined in 802.101;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Must meet the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code that the Mentor prime contractor believes best describes the product or service being acquired by the subcontract; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Protégés may have multiple mentors. Protégés participating in mentor-protégé programs in addition to VA's Program should maintain a system for preparing separate reports of mentoring activity so that results of VA's Program can be reported separately from any other agency program.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) A protégé firm shall self-represent to a mentor firm that it meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Mentors shall confirm eligibility by documenting the verified status of the protégé in the VetBiz.gov VIP database. Protégés must maintain verified status throughout the term of the Mentor-Protégé Agreement. Failure to do so shall result in cancellation of the Agreement.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
