<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_7108_T48_5021219818">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.7108</ph> Application process.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Firms interested in becoming approved mentor-protégé participants must submit a joint written VA Mentor-Protégé Agreement to the VA OSDBU for review and approval. The proposed Mentor-Protégé Agreement will be evaluated on the extent to which the mentor plans to provide developmental assistance. Evaluations will consider the nature and extent of technical and managerial support as well as any proposed financial assistance in the form of equity investment, loans, joint-venture, and traditional subcontracting support.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Mentor-Protégé Agreement must contain:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Names, addresses, phone numbers, and e-mail addresses (if available) of the mentor and protégé firm(s) and a point of contact for both mentor and protégé who will oversee the agreement;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A statement from the protégé firm that the firm is currently eligible as a SDVOSB or VOSB to participate in VA's Mentor-Protégé Program;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A description of the mentor's ability to provide developmental assistance to the protégé and the type of developmental assistance that will be provided, to include a description of the types and dollar amounts of subcontract work, if any, that may be awarded to the protégé firm;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Duration of the Agreement, including rights and responsibilities of both parties (mentor and protégé), with bi-annual reviews;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Termination procedures, including procedures for the parties' voluntary withdrawal from the Program. The Agreement shall require the mentor or the protégé to notify the other firm and VA OSDBU in writing at least 30 days in advance of its intent to voluntarily terminate the Agreement;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) A schedule with milestones for providing assistance;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Criteria for evaluation of the protégé's developmental success;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) A plan addressing how the mentor will increase the quality of the protégé firm's technical capabilities and contracting and subcontracting opportunities;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(9) An estimate of the total cost of the planned mentoring assistance to be provided to the Protégé;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(10) An agreement by both parties to comply with the reporting requirements of 819.7113;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(11) A plan for accomplishing unfinished work should the Agreement be voluntarily cancelled;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(12) Other terms and conditions, as appropriate; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(13) Signatures and date(s).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Agreement defines the relationship between the mentor and the protégé firms only. The Agreement does not create any privity of contract between the mentor and VA or the protégé and VA.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
