<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_216_71_T48_50216422121">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.216-71</ph> Economic Price Adjustment of Contract Price(s) Based on a Price Index.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 816.203-4(e)(1), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Economic Price Adjustment of Contract Price(s) Based on a Price Index (MAR 2018)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) To the extent that contract cost increases are provided for by this economic price adjustment clause, the Contractor warrants that the prices in this contract for the base period and any option periods do not include any amount to protect against such contingent cost increases.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Base and Adjusting Indexes, for the purpose of price adjustment under this clause, shall be ______,
<sup>1</sup>
                                      as contained in ______,
<sup>2</sup>
                                      as published by ______.
<sup>3</sup>
                                      All adjustments authorized under this clause shall be made by using the Base Index and Adjusting Indexes, which are published ______.
<sup>4</sup>
                                     
                                 </p>
                                 
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">
                                       <sup>1</sup> The Contracting Officer shall conduct market research to determine a suitable Consumer Price Index or other independent broad-based index to use for the solicitation. For example, for medical services, an appropriate index may be the Consumer Price Index that tracks medical services.</p>
                                 
                                 
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">
                                       <sup>2</sup> Specify where the Index can be found, such as in a solicitation for laboratory services, the Contracting Officer might enter “Table 1, CPI-U: U.S. City Average, by expenditure category and commodity and service group, found at <i>http://www.bls.gov/news.release/cpi.t01.htm”.</i>
                                    </p>
                                 
                                 
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">
                                       <sup>3</sup> Provide the information on who publishes the applicable Index used, <i>e.g.,</i> in the example for laboratory services, “the U.S. Department of Labor”.</p>
                                 
                                 
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">
                                       <sup>4</sup> State how often the Index is published, such as “monthly, around the middle of the month”. Note that some Consumer Price Indexes are not published monthly. Ensure that the correct information is provided for the specific Index used.</p>
                                 
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Base Index, for the purposes of price adjustment under this clause, shall be the most recent Index published prior to the date for receipt of offers, or the due date for receipt of best and final offers if discussions were held whichever is later. The Base Index shall remain constant for the entire term of the contract, including all option periods.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Adjusting Index shall be the most recent Index published prior to the date of contract adjustment, as specified in paragraph (d) of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) The percentage difference between the Base Index and the Adjusting Index, rounded to the nearest .01 percent (<i>e.g.,</i> 4.57%), will be used in calculating all adjustments to the following line items: ______.
<sup>5</sup>
                                      The prices for these line items will be multiplied by the percentage increase or decrease and the resulting amount will be added to or deducted from the original line item price for that contract period (<i>e.g.,</i> Base Year) to arrive at the new contract price for those line items from the effective date of the adjustment to the beginning of the next contract adjustment period, rounded to the same number of decimal points as the prices originally bid. Calculations for option year contract terms will be based on the prices in the schedule for those option years.
</p>
                                 
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">
                                       <sup>5</sup> Enter the line items that will be subject to adjustment or revise this paragraph to otherwise state what prices are subject to adjustment under this clause.</p>
                                 
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) The dates of contract adjustment shall be ______ 
<sup>6</sup>
                                      and the starting dates of each option year, if not already included in these dates. The Contracting Officer shall retain a copy of the Base Index in the contract file and, on each date of adjustment specified in this paragraph (d), shall obtain a copy of the Adjusting Index. The Contracting Officer shall calculate the adjustment due and shall, within 5 business days, issue a modification to the contract adjusting the unit or contract prices, as specified in paragraph (c). The adjusted unit or contract prices shall be effective for all orders placed or services provided after the date of contract adjustment as specified in this paragraph (d) until the beginning of the next contract adjustment period. If the Contracting Officer fails to act, the Contractor shall request in writing a contract adjustment and any subsequent adjustment shall be retroactive to the applicable date of contract adjustment specified in this paragraph (d). The Contractor's entitlement to price increases for a prior contract period (base year or option year) is waived unless the Contractor's written request for an adjustment under this clause is received by the Contracting Officer no later than 30 days following the end of the base year for changes applicable to the base year, or 30 days following the end of each option year for changes applicable to that option year. The Government's right to contract decreases for prior contract periods (base year or option year) is waived unless the Contracting Officer processes a contract modification no later than 30 days following the end of the base year for changes applicable to the base year, or 30 days following the end of each option year for changes applicable to that option year.
</p>
                                 
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">
                                       <sup>6</sup> Establish time periods for when the Contracting Officer will process adjustments. This could be “the first day of every quarter, January, April, July, and October” or “Annually on October 1st” or some other similar time periods. Since the contracting officer is responsible for initiating the change, the Contracting Officer must establish a reminder mechanism to ensure that the adjustments are accomplished within the time period specified.</p>
                                 
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) An example of an adjustment calculation is provided herein for informational purposes only.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The original contract price or line item prices for that contract term (<i>e.g.,</i> base year) shall be used for all calculations during that particular contract term and new calculations shall be made for each and every contract adjustment period specified in paragraph (d) during that contract term.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) For purposes of this example, the contract prices for the line items as specified in paragraph (c) will be adjusted by the percentage calculated as follows:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="DIV">
                                    
                                       <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="2" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">Adjusting Index for the current period</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">196.6
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">Minus the Base Index</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">−188.0
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">Equals the Index Point Change</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">8.6
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">Index Point Change Divided by the Base Index</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">8.6/188.0 = .0457 *
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">Result Multiplied by 100 Equals the Percentage Change</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left">4.57%
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left">(The Index Point Change Percentage)
</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                          </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                    
                                    <fn>
                                       <p outputclass="Normal">* This figure shall be rounded to the fourth decimal place. When the fifth decimal is 1 to 4, the figure shall be rounded down, 5 to 9, rounded up.</p>
                                    </fn>
                                 </p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) For a line item with an original bid price of $25.00 and a 4.57 percent Index Point Change increase as of the first contract adjustment period, as shown above, the calculations for a new contract price for the first contract adjustment period would be as follows: $25.00 × .0457 = $1.14, $25 + $1.14 = $26.14 **. The new contract price for this line item from the beginning of that first contract adjustment period until the start of the next contract adjustment period would be $26.14 and the Contracting Officer would issue a contract modification reflecting this price change. ** The unit price adjustment shall be rounded up or down, as in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause, to match the number of decimal places in the original bid.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) If the Adjusting Index went down for the second adjustment period, reflecting only a 3 percent Index Point Change increase over the Base Index, the new price for this sample line item would be reduced for the second contract adjustment period from $26.14 to $25.75 as follows: $25 × .03 = $0.75, $25 + $0.75 = $25.75. Note that the calculations for the second contract adjustment period are based on the original contract price for that contract term of $25.00. The contract price for this line item is modified to reflect this new price for the second contract adjustment period.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) At the start of the first option year and each subsequent option year period (as well as for each contract adjustment period specified in paragraph (d) during that option year, if different), the Contracting Officer shall recalculate the contract or unit prices for that first option year based on any changes between the Adjusting Index and the Base Index, from the original contract award date to the start of the first option period, and based on the Contractor's new option year prices. Assume the Contractor's bid price for the first option year for the above sample line item was $25.50 and the calculations shown in paragraph (e)(1) of this clause at the start of the first option period reflected a 6 percent Index Point Change. The new contract price for this sample line item at the start of the first option period would be calculated as follows: $25.50 × .06 = $1.53, $25.50 + $1.53 = $27.03. The Contracting Officer would process a contract modification reflecting a revised contract price of $27.03 for the first contract adjustment period in the first option year.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) Price adjustments pursuant to this clause, shall be documented by a contract modification issued by the Contracting Officer, show the Base Index (see paragraph (b)(1)), the Adjusting Index, the adjusted contract prices (see paragraph (c)), the mathematical calculations used to arrive at the adjusted contract prices, and the effective date of the adjustment (see paragraph (d)).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(g) At the start of each option year, the Contracting Officer shall, within 5 days of the start of the option year period, process a contract modification adjusting the option year prices by the then current Index Point Change percentage, if any, reflecting the new adjusted prices for that first contract adjustment period in that option year.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(h) In the event that ______ 
<sup>7</sup>
                                      discontinues, or alters substantially, its method of calculating the Index cited herein, the parties shall mutually agree upon an appropriate substitute for determining the price adjustment described herein. If the Contracting Officer determines that the Index consistently and substantially fails to reflect market conditions, the Contracting Officer may modify the contract to specify the use of an appropriate substitute index, effective on the date the Index specified herein begins to consistently and substantially fail to reflect market conditions.
</p>
                                 
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">
                                       <sup>7</sup> Enter in the name of the entity whose index is used in the clause. In most cases when using this clause format, the index used would be a CPI-U Index and the Contracting Officer would enter “the U.S. Department of Labor”.</p>
                                 
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(i) Any dispute arising under this clause shall be resolved subject to the “Disputes” clause of the contract.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
