<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section__808_002_T48_502109011">
      <title class="- topic/title ">ยง 808.002   Priorities for use of mandatory Government sources.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Sources.</i> Contracting activities shall satisfy requirements for supplies and services from or through the mandatory sources listed below in descending order of priority:
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Supplies.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			VA inventories including the VA supply stock program (41 CFR 101-26.704) and VA excess.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Excess from other agencies (see FAR subpart 8.1).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (see VAAR 808.603). Prior to considering award of a contract to Federal Prison Industries, Inc, contracting officers shall apply the VA Rule of Two to determine whether a requirement should be awarded to veteran-owned small businesses under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8127-28, by using the preferences and priorities in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>. If an award is not made to a VIP-listed and verified service disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB)/veteran-owned small business (VOSB) as provided in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>, FPI remains a mandatory source in accordance with FAR 8.002.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Supplies that are on the Procurement List maintained by the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, known as AbilityOne (FAR subpart 8.7). Prior to considering award of a contract under the AbilityOne program, contracting officers shall apply the VA Rule of Two to determine whether a requirement should be awarded to veteran-owned small businesses under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8127-28, by using the preferences and priorities in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>. If an award is not made to a VIP-listed and verified SDVOSB/VOSB as provided in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>, AbilityOne remains a mandatory source in accordance with FAR 8.002. All new VA requirements must be approved by the Chief Acquisition Officer, via the Senior Procurement Executive, before contacting the Committee to request addition of new items to the Procurement List.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v) Wholesale supply sources, such as stock programs of the General Services Administration (GSA) (see 41 CFR 101-26.3), the Defense Logistics Agency (see 41 CFR 101-26.6), the Department of Veterans Affairs (see 41 CFR 101-26.704), and military inventory control points.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Services that are on the Procurement List maintained by the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, known as AbilityOne (FAR subpart 8.7).</i> Prior to considering award of a contract under the AbilityOne program, contracting officers shall apply the VA Rule of Two to determine whether a requirement should be awarded to veteran-owned small businesses under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8127-28, by using the preferences and priorities in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>. If an award is not made to a VIP-listed and verified SDVOSB/VOSB as provided in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>, AbilityOne remains a mandatory source in accordance with FAR 8.002. All new VA requirements must be approved by the Chief Acquisition Officer, via the Senior Procurement Executive, before contacting the Committee to request addition of new items to the Procurement List.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Unusual and compelling urgency.</i> The contracting officer may use a source other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section when the need for supplies or services is of an unusual and compelling urgency (see FAR 6.302-2, 8.405-6 and 13.106-1 for justification requirements).
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Eligible Beneficiaries.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			A contracting officer may authorize an acquisition from the Veterans Canteen Service or a commercial source when a VA healthcare official (e.g., social worker, physician) determines that personal selection of shoes, clothing, and incidentals will result in a therapeutic benefit to an eligible beneficiary.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer must cite Federal Prison Industries, Inc., clearance No. 1206 in the purchase document for any purchase from a commercial source of dress shoes similar to Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Style No. 86-A.
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p>
               <b>Effective Date Note:</b>
            </p>
                                 <p>At 84 FR 29390, June 24, 2019, ยง 808.002 was amended by revising the section heading and paragraphs (a) and (b), effective June 24, 2019 through July 1, 2021.</p>
                              </note>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
