<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_832_006_4_T48_5021329014">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">832.006-4</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Remedy Coordination Official (RCO) for VA is the Deputy Senior Procurement Executive (DSPE) who shall carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary or designee in FAR 32.006-4(b).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The RCO shall carry out the responsibilities of the agency head in FAR 32.006-4(e) to notify the contractor of the reasons for the recommended action and of its right to submit information within a reasonable period of time in response to the proposed action under FAR 32.006.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The notice of proposed action will be sent to the last known address of the contractor, the contractor's counsel, or agent for service of process, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or any other method that provides signed evidence of receipt. In the case of a business, the notice of proposed action may be sent to any partner, principal, officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venture. The contractor will be afforded an opportunity to appear before the RCO to present information or argument in person or through a representative and may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. The proceedings will be conducted in an informal manner and without the requirement for a transcript. If the RCO does not receive a reply from the contractor within 30 calendar days, the RCO will base his or her recommendations on the information available. Any recommendation of the RCO under FAR 31.006-4(a) and paragraph (b) of this section, must address the results of this notification and the information, if any, provided by the contractor. After reviewing all the information, the RCO shall make a recommendation to the SPE whether or not substantial evidence of fraud exists.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) In addition to following the procedures in FAR 32.006-4, the SPE shall provide a copy of each final determination and the supporting documentation to the contractor, the RCO, the contracting officer, and the Office of the Inspector General (OIG). The contracting officer will place a copy of the determination and the supporting documentation in the contract file.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
