<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_801_602_83_T48_502925118">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">801.602-83</ph> Documents to submit for legal or technical review - contract modifications.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The documents specified in this section related to proposed contract modifications must be submitted to Acquisition Resources Service for review under one or more of the following conditions:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) When the total modification value is $100,000 or more.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) When the modification is for a time extension of 60 days or more.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Where the contractor takes exception to VA's accord and satisfaction language.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting officer must submit the following documents for review:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) A draft of the proposed modification prepared on SF 30, Amendment of Solicitation/Modification of Contract, specifying the exact language proposed and describing any change in work, time, or cost.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A statement describing the need for the changed work with any back-up documentation, including a copy of the general statement of work in the original contract and any existing contract language that will be modified.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A statement addressing whether the proposed modification is within the original scope of the contract and specifically addressing the facts considered in reaching the conclusion.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) A statement analyzing what necessitated the modification (e.g., a design error, technical changes, or medical center requirements).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) The contracting officer's technical representative's (COTR) technical evaluation of the proposed change.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) A memorandum from the appropriate office indicating that funds are available or a statement concerning the actions that must be taken to secure the required funds.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) The names and telephone numbers of the contracting officer and COTR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) Costing information including the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) The contractor's cost proposal in the format required by the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The COTR's independent cost evaluation.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The architect/engineer's independent cost evaluation, if applicable and available.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The contracting officer's Price Negotiation Memorandum under FAR 15.406-3.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v) Any other relevant costing information, such as independent market research, that VA used or will use as negotiation criteria.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) For a proposed modification to an architect/engineer contract, the contracting officer must submit for review each document specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the following additional documents.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) A listing of the fees awarded in the original contract and previous modifications.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) For a working drawing contract, a statement regarding the actual or estimated cost of the original construction and any estimated change to the overall project cost as a result of the proposed modification.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) For a modification to a construction contract or, where applicable, to an architect/engineer contract, the contracting officer must submit for review a copy of the COTR's mark-up of any drawing that delineates the proposed changed work, including a copy of any pertinent technical specifications. When there is a proposed modification involving numerous changes to drawings and specifications for a VA Central Office project, the drawings and specifications must be available for review in the Office of the Project Director in VA Central Office.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
