<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_202_5_T48_5021219114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.202-5</ph> Data collection and reporting requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Administration heads, staff office directors, and HCAs must, in addition to the responsibilities designated in FAR 19.202-5, cooperate with OSDBU in formulating specific small business program goals and providing other data necessary for goal assessment.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Each VA acquisition activity shall establish goals for the expenditure of funds with preferred businesses within their projected annual budget. OSDBU is responsible for Department-wide goals and accomplishments and will approve or adjust each acquisition activity's goals.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) A Procurement Preference Program Goals Report (Report Control Symbol 00-0427) shall be submitted annually by each acquisition activity to reach OSDBU by November 1. Each report shall contain total expenditure estimates and goals for the current fiscal year and explanations of the methods utilized to arrive at each proposed goal. Anticipated problems in the attainment of the proposed goal in any category shall also be identified. This information will be used in negotiating the Department goals with the Small Business Administration (SBA).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) As an addendum to the report, each acquisition activity shall provide a narrative explaining the reason(s) for any shortfall(s) in the achievement of any previous fiscal year goal category.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Upon review by OSDBU of the proposed goals, each acquisition activity will be notified of the acceptance of goals as submitted, or of any deficiencies. If the goals are not acceptable, the acquisition activity will be requested to submit further written justification for the goals submitted. Based on documents submitted, OSDBU will make a final determination on the goal assignment.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) Accomplishment of goals will be determined by OSDBU from data reported by acquisition activities into the Federal Procurement Data System-Next Generation (FPDS-NG).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
