<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_873_109_T48_5021746019">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">873.109</ph> General requirements for acquisition of health-care resources.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Source selection authority.</i> Unless the head of the contracting activity (HCA) appoints another individual to serve as the Source Selection Authority (SSA), the contracting officer shall be the SSA for acquisitions of health-care resources, consisting of commercial services, or the use of medical equipment or space, utilizing the guidance contained in this part. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Performance work statement/statement of work.</i> The performance work statement (PWS) or statement of work (SOW) must define the requirement and should, in most instances, include qualifications or limitations such as time limits for delivery of service, medical certification or credentialing restrictions, and small business or other socio-economic preferences. The contracting officer may include any other such terms as the contracting officer deems appropriate for each specific acquisition. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Documentation.</i> Without regard to FAR 13.106-3(b), 13.501(b), or 15.406-3, the contract file must include - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) A brief written description of the procedures used in awarding the contract;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A written determination that the health-care resources being procured are not otherwise feasibly available or that utilization of such health-care resources is necessary to meet mission requirements;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Documentation of market research and the results of such research;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The number of offers received; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) An explanation, tailored to the size and complexity of the acquisition, of the basis for the contract award decision. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Time for receipt of quotations or offers.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Without regard to FAR 5.203, contracting officers shall set a reasonable time for receipt of quotations or proposals in the solicitations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Without regard to FAR 15.208 or 52.212-1(f), quotations or proposals received after the time set forth in an RFQ or request for proposals (RFP) may be considered at the discretion of the contracting officer if determined to be in the best interest of the Government. Contracting officers must document the rationale for accepting quotations or proposals received after the time specified in the RFQ or RFP. This paragraph (d)(2) shall not apply to RFQs or RFPs if alternative evaluation techniques described in 873.111(d)(1)(ii) are used. This paragraph (d)(2) does not apply to invitations for bid (IFBs). (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Cancellation of procurements.</i> Any acquisition may be canceled by the contracting officer at any time during the acquisition process if cancellation is determined to be in the best interest of the Government and a memorandum for the record in included in the solicitation file explaining the reasons for the cancellation. (38 U.S.C. 8153)




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
