<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_228_71_T48_50216422137">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.228-71</ph> Indemnification and Insurance.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 828.306, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Indemnification and Insurance (MAR 2018)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Indemnification.</i> The Contractor expressly agrees to indemnify and save the Government, its officers, agents, servants, and employees harmless from and against any and all claims, loss, damage, injury, and liability, however caused, resulting from, arising out of, or in any way connected with the performance of work under this contract. Further, it is agreed that any negligence or alleged negligence of the Government, its officers, agents, servants, and employees, shall not be a bar to a claim for indemnification unless the act or omission of the Government, its officers, agents, servants, and employees is the sole, competent, and producing cause of such claims, loss, damage, injury, and liability. At the option of the Contractor, and subject to the approval by the Contracting Officer, insurance coverage may be employed as guaranty of indemnification.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Insurance.</i> Satisfactory insurance coverage is a condition precedent to award of this contract. In general, a successful bidder must present satisfactory evidence of full compliance with State and local requirements, or those below stipulated, whichever are the greater. More specifically, workers' compensation and employer's liability coverage will conform to applicable State law requirements for the service defined, whereas general liability and automobile liability of comprehensive type shall, in the absence of higher statutory minimums, be required in the amounts per vehicle used of not less than $200,000 per person and $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and $20,000 per occurrence for property damage. State-approved sources of insurance coverage ordinarily will be deemed acceptable to the Department of Veterans Affairs, subject to timely certifications by such sources of the types and limits of the coverages afforded by the sources to the bidder. [Contracting Officer's Note: In those instances where airplane service is to be used, substitute the word “aircraft” for “automobile” and “vehicle” and modify coverage to require aircraft public and passenger liability insurance of at least $200,000 per passenger and $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury, other than passenger liability, and $200,000 per occurrence for property damage. Coverage for passenger liability bodily injury shall be at least $200,000 multiplied by the number of seats or passengers, whichever is greater.]</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
