<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_806_302_570_T48_502107313">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">806.302-570</ph> Noncompetitive procedures for verified Veteran-owned small businesses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Sole source awards made to a verified SDVOSB or VOSB.</i> Full and open competition need not be provided for when awarding a sole source contract under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, to a verified SDVOSB or VOSB in accordance with 819.7007 or 819.7008, respectively, as authorized. Contracts awarded using the authority in this paragraph (a) shall be supported by the applicable justification and approval requirements of FAR 6.302-5(c)(2)(ii), 6.303, and 6.304.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Sole source awards below the simplified acquisition threshold.</i> (Citation: 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5), as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8127(b)). A contracting officer may award a contract under the authority in this paragraph (b) to a VIP verified SDVOSB first, then VOSB if no SDVOSBs can fulfill the need, for an amount less than the simplified acquisition threshold, using procedures other than full and open competition. (38 U.S.C. 8127)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Sole source awards above the simplified acquisition threshold.</i> (Citation: 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5), as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8127(c)). A contracting officer may award a contract to a VIP verified SDVOSB first, then VOSB if no SDVOSB can satisfy the need, using procedures other than full and open competition when - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Such concern is determined to be a responsible source with respect to performance of such contract opportunity;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The anticipated award price of the contract (including options) will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, but will not exceed $5 million; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Contract award can be made at a fair and reasonable price that offers best value to the United States. (38 U.S.C. 8127)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
