<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_873_101_T48_5021746011">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">873.101</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 8153, to secure health-care resources which otherwise might not be feasibly available, or to effectively utilize certain other health-care resources, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) may make arrangements by contract for the mutual use, or exchange of use, of health-care resources between VA health-care facilities and any health-care provider, or other entity or individual. This part prescribes simplified procedures for contracts with entities not affiliated with VA under 38 U.S.C. 7302 to secure health-care resources that are a commercial service, or the use of medical equipment or space. VA may enter into such a contract if such resources are not, or would not be, used to their maximum effective capacity. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Precedence.</i> The procedures in this part shall be used in conjunction with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and other parts of the VA Acquisition Regulation (VAAR). However, when a policy or procedure in the FAR or another part of the VAAR is inconsistent with the procedures contained in this part, this part shall take precedence. (38 U.S.C. 8153)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
