<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_236_92_T48_50216422154">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.236-92</ph> Notice to Bidders - Additive or Deductive Bid Line Items.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 836.580, insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Notice to Bidders - Additive or Deductive Bid Line Items (APR 2019)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Additive or deductive line items in the bid schedule shall be evaluated to determine the low offeror and the items to be awarded. The evaluation shall be made as follows - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Prior to the opening of bids, the Government will determine the amount of funds available for the project.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The low bid shall be the Bidder that - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Is otherwise eligible for award; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Offers the lowest aggregate amount for the first or base line item, plus or minus (in the order stated in the list of priorities in the bid schedule) those additive or deductive line items that provide the most features within the funds determined available.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) All bids shall be evaluated on the basis of the same additive or deductive line items.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) If adding another item from the bid schedule list of priorities would make the award exceed the available funds for all offerors, the Contracting Officer will skip that item and go to the next item from the bid schedule of priorities; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Add that next item if an award may be made that includes that line item and is within the available funds.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contracting Officer will use the list of priorities in the bid schedule only to determine the low offeror. After determining the low offeror, an award may be made on any combination of items if - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) It is in the best interest of the Government;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Funds are available at the time of award; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The low offeror's price for the combination to be awarded is less than the price offered by any other responsive, responsible offeror.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Example: “The amount available is $100,000. Offeror A's base bid and four additives (in the order stated in the list of priorities in the bid schedule) are $85,000, $10,000, $8,000, $6,000, and $4,000. Offeror B's base bid and four additives are $80,000, $16,000, $9,000, $7,000, and $4,000. Offeror A is the low offeror. The aggregate amount of offeror A's bid for purposes of award would be $99,000, which includes a base bid plus the first and fourth additives. The second and third additives were skipped because each of them would cause the aggregate bid to exceed $100,000.”</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
