<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_829_203_70_T48_5021326112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">829.203-70</ph> Tax exemptions for alcohol products.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 5214(a)(2) and 26 U.S.C. 5271, VA may purchase spirits using a tax exemption as provided by Department of the Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) regulations (see 27 CFR parts 1 through 39). As stated in 27 CFR 19.426, agencies of the United States Government that wish to obtain either specially denatured spirits or spirits free of tax for nonbeverage purposes must apply for and receive a permit on form TTB F 5150.33 or must have a previously issued permit on ATF Form 1444.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) When purchasing spirits under a tax exemption, the contracting officer shall indicate in the contract document the basis for the exemption and make a copy of the permit available to the contractor. Upon receipt of the spirits, the contractor shall return the permit to the contracting officer unless future orders are anticipated or as directed by the contracting officer.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Department of Veterans Affairs activities that require spirits free of tax for beverage purposes under 26 U.S.C. 7510 must provide a proper purchase order signed by the head of the agency or an authorized designee.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Specially denatured spirits or spirits free of tax for nonbeverage purposes.</i> Contracting officers may make purchases of excise tax-free spirits, including denatured alcohol and specially denatured alcohol only from qualified distillery plants or bonded dealers.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Permits previously issued on Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF) Form 1444, Tax-Free Spirits for Use of United States, remain valid until surrendered or cancelled.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A copy of the current ATF Form 1444 or TTB Form 5150.33 shall be made available to the supplier with the initial order. The permit number only needs to be referenced on any future orders with the same supplier.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Wine.</i> No tax exemption form or ATF/TTB permit is required for the tax-free procurement of wine from bonded wine premises. The purchase order must show the kind, quantity, and alcohol content of the wine and must state the purpose for which wine is to be used (see 27 CFR 24.293). An extra copy of a properly executed purchase order may be furnished to the bonded wine premises from which wine is purchased to facilitate record keeping. The order must be signed by the head of the contracting activity or their designee.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
