<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_801_602_3_T48_50292514">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">801.602-3</ph> Ratification of unauthorized commitments.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) This section applies to unauthorized commitments, including any commitment made by a contracting officer that exceeds that contracting officer's contracting authority and unauthorized commitments made by individuals who lack contracting authority.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) A contracting officer must not ratify unauthorized commitments made by other VA personnel or by another contracting officer who lacks authority without prior approval as specified in paragraphs (b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			through (b)(3) of this section. The specified approval authorities may not be re-delegated.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) At field facilities, for supplies, services (except leases of real property), and construction, the approving authority for unauthorized commitments made by staff assigned to a field facility is the HCA.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) For VA Central Office (VACO) organizations, for supplies, services (except leases of real property), and construction, the approving authorities for unauthorized commitments made by staff assigned to the Administrations are the respective chief financial officers of the Administrations concerned. The approving authority for unauthorized commitments made by staff assigned to any other organization within VACO is the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Acquisition and Materiel Management.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) For unauthorized commitments for leasehold interest in real property, the approving authority is:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) The Director, Office of Construction and Facilities Management, for unauthorized commitments for 1-5,000 square feet of space or for 1-100 parking spaces costing less than $50,000 per annum.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The Under Secretary for Health for unauthorized commitments for 5,001-20,000 square feet of space or for more than 100 parking spaces costing less than $100,000 per annum.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The Deputy Secretary for 20,001 square feet of space and above or for more than 100 parking spaces costing more than $100,000 per annum.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The process for contracting officer requests for ratification will be as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The individual who made the unauthorized commitment will furnish the contracting officer with all records and documents concerning the commitment and a complete written statement of facts that includes the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Why the procurement office was not used.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Why the proposed contractor was selected.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Other sources that were considered.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) A description of work to be performed or products to be furnished.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v) The estimated or agreed contract price.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vi) A citation of the appropriation available.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vii) A statement of whether the contractor has commenced performance.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(viii) The name of the individual responsible for the unauthorized commitment.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer will review the file and forward it to the approving authority specified in paragraph (b) of this section with any comments or information that the approving authority should consider in evaluating the request for ratification. If the approving authority determines that a legal review would be desirable, the approving authority will coordinate the request for ratification with OGC or the Regional Counsel, as appropriate.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) If the approving authority authorizes the ratification, the approving authority will return the file to the contracting officer for issuance of a purchase order or contract, as appropriate.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) If an otherwise proper contract award exceeds the limits of the contracting officer's delegated authority, the ratifying contracting officer must comply with the above requirements and the approving authority must inform the HCA. The HCA will take action to preclude future instances of such awards.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
