<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_806_302_571_T48_502107314">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">806.302-571</ph> Authorized or required by statute - VA unique authorities.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Authority.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Citation:</i> 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5). Contracting officers shall also cite the specific authorities in paragraph (b) of this section for the statutes related to the products and services procured.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Full and open competition need not be provided for when a statute expressly authorizes or requires that the acquisition be made through another agency or from a specified source.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Application.</i> The following products and services are authorized to be acquired from a specified source:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Prosthetic appliances and services.</i> Contracting activities may procure prosthetic appliances and necessary services required in the fitting, supplying, and training and use of prosthetic appliances by purchase, manufacture, contract, or in such other manner as determined to be proper, without regard to any other provision of law. (38 U.S.C. 8123)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Commercial health-care resources, the use of medical equipment or space, or research, and acquired from an institution affiliated with the Department of Veterans Affairs.</i> Contracting activities may procure health care resources, including resources from medical practice groups and other approved entities associated with affiliated institutions, blood banks, organ banks, or research centers from an institution affiliated with VA in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7302. Acquisition of resources from medical practice groups and other entities shall be approved when determined by the contracting activity to be legally associated with affiliated institutions in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7302. The justification and approval requirements of FAR 6.303 and paragraph (c) of this section do not apply. (38 U.S.C. 8153(a)(3)(A))
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Commercial health-care resources, the use of medical equipment or space, and is not to be acquired from an entity described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.</i> Contracting activities may procure health care resources from a non-affiliated institution in accordance with the simplified procedures prescribed in part 873. The justification and approval requirements of FAR 6.303 shall apply. (38 U.S.C. 8153(a)(3)(B))
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Commercial health-care resources, the use of medical equipment or space, when not acquired from an affiliated institution described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and to be conducted on a sole source basis.</i> The authority in this paragraph (b)(4) applies if not acquired from an affiliated institution in accordance with part 873. The justification and approval requirements of FAR 6.303 shall apply. (38 U.S.C. 8153(a)(3)(C)-(D))
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Written justifications and approvals.</i> Contracts awarded using an authority in this section, with the exception of acquisitions authorized under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shall be supported by the written justifications and approvals described in FAR 6.303 and 6.304.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Citation of specific authorities.</i> When a contracting officer enters into a contract without providing full and open competition for any of the following items or services, the contracting officer must cite 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5) and the following authorities that apply, in the written justifications and approvals as required by FAR 6.303 and 6.304:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Contracts for scarce medical specialist services.</i> (Citation: 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5), as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7409.) Contracting officers may enter into contracts with:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Schools and colleges of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, optometry, and nursing;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Clinics; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Any other group or individual capable of furnishing such scarce medical specialist services at VA facilities, to include the services of physicians, dentists, podiatrists, optometrists, chiropractors, nurses, physician assistants, expanded-function dental auxiliaries, technicians, and other medical support personnel. (38 U.S.C. 7409)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Contracts or agreements to purchase or sell merchandise, equipment, fixtures, supplies and services for the operation of the Veterans Canteen Service.</i> (<i>Citation:</i> 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5), as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7802(f).) Contracts or agreements may be entered into without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101(b) through (d).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Contracts or leases for the operation of parking facilities established under authority of 38 U.S.C. 8109(b).</i> (<i>Citation:</i> 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5), as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8109(f).) Contracts or leases may be entered into provided that the establishment, operation, and maintenance of such facilities have been authorized by the Secretary or designee.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Contracts for laundry and other common services, such as the purchase of steam, negotiated with non-profit, tax-exempt educational, medical, or community institutions.</i> (<i>Citation:</i> 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5), as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8122(c).) Contracts may be entered into when specifically approved by the Secretary or designee and when such services are not reasonably available from private commercial sources.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Contracts or agreements with private or public agencies or persons for translator services.</i> (<i>Citation:</i> 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5), as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 513.)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
