<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_806_302_5_T48_502107112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">806.302-5</ph> Authorized or required by statute.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Full and open competition need not be provided for when awarding:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Scarce Medical Specialist contracts negotiated under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7409, but only when such contracts are with institutions affiliated with VA under 38 U.S.C. 7302. (38 U.S.C. 7409)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contracts for health-care resources negotiated under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8153, but only when such contracts are with institutions affiliated with VA under 38 U.S.C. 7302, including medical practice groups and other approved entities associated with affiliated institutions (entities will be approved if determined legally to be associated with affiliated institutions), or with blood banks, organ banks, or research centers. The justification and approval requirements of FAR 6.303 and <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_806_304_T48_502107114"
                  href="Section_806_304_T48_502107114.dita#Section_806_304_T48_502107114">806.304</xref> do not apply to such contracts or agreements. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Contracts for health-care resources, negotiated under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8153, that are not acquired under the authority of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, but only when the procurement is conducted in accordance with part 873. The justification and approval requirements of FAR 6.303 and <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_806_304_T48_502107114"
                  href="Section_806_304_T48_502107114.dita#Section_806_304_T48_502107114">806.304</xref> shall apply to such contracts and agreements conducted on a sole-source basis. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Various sections of title 38 U.S.C. authorize the Secretary to enter into certain contracts and certain types of contracts without regard to any other provisions of law. When the contracting officer enters into a contract without providing full and open competition for any of the following items or services, the contracting officer must cite 41 U.S.C. 253(c)(5) and the following authorities:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) For contracts for orthopedic and prosthetic appliances and related services including research, cite 38 U.S.C. 8123. (38 U.S.C. 8123)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) For contracts to purchase or sell merchandise, equipment, fixtures, supplies and services for the operation of the Veterans Canteen Service, cite 38 U.S.C. 7802. (38 U.S.C. 7802)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) For contracts or leases for the operation of parking facilities established under authority of 38 U.S.C. 8109(b), provided that the establishment, operation, and maintenance of such facilities have been authorized by the Secretary or designee, cite 38 U.S.C. 8109(f). (38 U.S.C. 8109)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) For contracts for laundry and other common services, such as the purchase of steam, negotiated with non-profit, tax-exempt, educational, medical, or community institutions, when specifically approved by the Secretary or designee and when such services are not reasonably available from private commercial sources, cite 38 U.S.C. 8122(c). (38 U.S.C. 8122)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) For contracts or agreements with public or private agencies for services of translators, cite 38 U.S.C. 513. (38 U.S.C. 513)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Except for an acquisition under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the contracting officer must provide a justification under FAR 6.303 and obtain an approval under <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_806_304_T48_502107114"
                  href="Section_806_304_T48_502107114.dita#Section_806_304_T48_502107114">806.304</xref> for each acquisition described in this section.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
