<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_801_690_7_T48_502925138">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">801.690-7</ph> Termination.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The DSPE (for all warrant levels) or HCA (for Micro-purchase Level and Level I warrants) may revoke or rescind the appointment of a contracting officer at any time. HCAs may submit a recommendation to revoke or rescind the appointment of a contracting officer's Level II warrant or Level III (Senior Limited or Unlimited) warrant to the DSPE. Revocation may be based on the following circumstances:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) There is no longer a need for the appointment;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) There has been a personnel action such as a resignation, retirement, transfer;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Unsatisfactory performance;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Alleged official misconduct pending criminal or administrative investigations;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Failure to meet training or skills currency requirements;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) A contracting officer taking an action that exceeds his or her authority;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Blatant disregard for adhering to acquisition regulations, policies and procedures; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) Situations similar to those in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section that may require remedial action.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The HCA should discuss a termination of contracting authority for cause with the servicing Human Resource Management Office to determine the impact, if any, on the contracting officer's continued employment.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) All changes in the status (e.g., departure, name, position, or grade change) of a micro-purchase cardholder or Level I warrant holder shall be reported in writing by the individual's supervisor to the HCA within five workdays of occurrence. All changes in the status of a Level II warrant or Level III (Senior Limited or Unlimited) warrant holder shall be reported in writing by the HCA to the DSPE within five workdays of occurrence. Level II warrants or Level III (Senior Limited or Unlimited) warrants that are terminated, rescinded, or superseded should be returned to the Director, Acquisition Resources Service (049A5), citing the exact reason for the termination, rescission, or supersession.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
