<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_809_406_270_T48_50210102110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">809.406-270</ph> Additional causes for debarment.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Discretionary causes.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			In addition to the causes listed in FAR 9.406-2 (a) through (c), the SDO may debar contractors, based upon a preponderance of the evidence (as defined at FAR 2.101), for the Government's protection, for - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Any deliberate violation of the limitation on subcontracting clause requirements for acquisitions under subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Failure to observe the material provisions of a voluntary exclusion or an administrative agreement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The period of debarment shall be commensurate with the seriousness of the action.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Statutory cause.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), Enforcement Penalties for Misrepresentation, the SDO shall debar, from contracting with VA, for a period of not less than five years, any business concern that has willfully and intentionally misrepresented the status of that concern as a small business concern owned and controlled by Veterans or as a small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled Veterans.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Debarment of a business concern pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g) shall include the debarment of all principals in the business concern. Debarment shall be for a period of not less than five years.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) “Willful and intentional” misrepresentations, for the purpose of debarment actions taken pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), are defined as deliberate misrepresentations concerning the status of the concern as a small business concern owned and controlled by Veterans or as a small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled Veterans as supported by the preponderance of evidence. Examples of a preponderance of evidence for deliberate misrepresentation of SDVOSB and/or VOSB status include but are not limited to: Criminal convictions, plea agreements, deferred prosecution agreements, Board of Contract Appeals decisions, and admissions of guilt.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
