<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_873_104_T48_5021746014">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">873.104</ph> Competition requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Affiliated institutions.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			A health-care resource may be acquired on a sole source basis if a commercial service, the use of medical equipment or space, or research, and is to be acquired from an institution affiliated with the VA in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7302, including medical practice groups and other entities associated with affiliated institutions, blood banks, organ banks, or research centers. (38 U.S.C. 8153(a)(3)(A))
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Acquisitions of health-care resources identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not required to be publicized as otherwise required by 873.108 or FAR 5.101.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Non-affiliated entities.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			If the health-care resource required is a commercial service or the use of medical equipment or space, and is to be acquired from an entity not described in paragraph (a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this section, contracting officers shall permit all responsible sources, as appropriate, to submit a bid, proposal, or quotation for the resource to be procured, and provide for the consideration by VA of bids, proposals, or quotations so submitted. (38 U.S.C. 8153(a)(3)(B))
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Acquisition of health-care resources identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be publicized as otherwise required by 873.108. Moreover, for any such acquisition described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to be conducted on a sole source basis, the contracting officer must prepare a justification that includes the information and is approved at the levels prescribed in FAR 6.303. (38 U.S.C. 8153(a)(3)(D))


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
