<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_202_70_T48_5021219115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.202-70</ph> HCA responsibilities.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">An HCA must perform the following functions in support of the small business program. These functions cannot be delegated without written approval of the Director, OSBDU:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Develop, on an annual basis, a plan of operation to increase the share of contracts and purchase orders awarded to the small business programs prescribed in FAR Part 19. This plan must also include veteran-owned and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Promote goals for the small business programs set forth in FAR Part 19. This must also include veteran-owned and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Review the types and classes of items and services to be purchased to determine the applicability of individual small business set-asides.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Review class set-asides, established in accordance with criteria in FAR 19.503, at least annually to determine whether items or services procured under a unilateral or joint set-aside should be modified or withdrawn.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Maintain updated lists of acquisitions reserved for small business on a class basis.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) If the acquisition activity is assigned to an SBA Procurement Center Representative, assure that the representative is provided logistical support, cooperation, and access to all reasonably obtainable contract information directly pertinent to the SBA Procurement Center Representative's official duties.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) Encourage technical personnel and end-users to participate in discussions with veteran-owned and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) Attend conferences and meetings publicizing small business programs. This responsibility may be delegated without the written approval of the Director, OSBDU.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
