<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_809_470_T48_50210102116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">809.470</ph> Fact-finding procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The provisions of this section constitute the procedures to be used to resolve genuine disputes of material fact pursuant to 809.406-3 and 809.407-3 of this subpart. The SDO shall appoint a designee to conduct the fact-finding. OGC shall represent VA at any fact-finding hearing and may present witnesses for VA and question any witnesses presented by the contractor. The proceedings before the fact-finder will be limited to a finding of the facts in dispute, as determined by the SDO. The fact-finder shall establish the date for the fact-finding hearing, normally to be held within 30 days after the S&amp;D Committee notifies the contractor or individual that the SDO has established a genuine dispute of material fact(s) exists.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Government's representative and the contractor will have an opportunity to present evidence relevant to the material fact(s) identified by the SDO. The contractor or individual may appear in person or through a representative at the fact-finding hearing. The contractor or individual may submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any person the agency presents.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Witnesses may testify in person. Witnesses will be reminded of the official nature of the proceedings and that any false testimony given is subject to criminal prosecution. Witnesses are subject to cross-examination. Hearsay evidence may be presented and will be given appropriate weight by the fact-finder.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The proceedings shall be transcribed and a copy of the transcript shall be made available at cost to the contractor upon request, unless the contractor and the fact-finder, by mutual agreement, waive the requirement for a transcript.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The fact-finder shall determine the disputed fact(s) by a preponderance of the evidence for proposed debarments, and by adequate evidence for suspensions. Written findings of fact shall be prepared by the fact-finder. A copy of the findings of fact shall be provided to the SDO, the Government's representative, and the contractor or individual. The SDO will consider the written findings of fact in the decision regarding the suspension or proposed debarment.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
