<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_814_201_2_T48_5021115212">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">814.201-2</ph> Part I - The Schedule.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Section B, Supplies or services and prices.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) When the contracting officer determines that it will be to the Government's advantage to make an award on the basis of a summary bid, the IFB shall include the following statement in Part I - The Schedule, Section B:
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">The award will be made on either the bid price for individual items or the summary bid price summary for all items, whichever results in the lowest price to the Government. Therefore, to assure proper evaluation of all bids, a bidder quoting a summary bid price must also quote a price on each individual item included in the summary bid price.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">(2) When a contracting officer determines that it will be to the Government's advantage to make an award by group or groups of items, the IFB shall include the following statement in Part I - The Schedule, Section B:
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">Award shall be made on the basis of the bid price for each identified group of items. The individual price of each line item in the group does not have to be the lowest bid received for that item. This may apply when the items in the group or groups are readily available from sources to be solicited; and one of the following applies:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) Furniture or fixtures are required for a single project and uniformity of design is desirable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(ii) The articles required will be assembled and used as a unit.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
