<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_809_106_1_T48_5021010112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">809.106-1</ph> Conditions for pre-award surveys.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, a committee under the direction of the contracting officer and composed of representatives of the medical service or using service chiefs or designees appointed by the facility or VISN director will conduct a pre-award on-site evaluation of the plant, personnel, equipment and processes of the prospective contractor for contracts covering the products and services of the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Bakeries.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Dairies.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Ice cream plants.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Laundry and dry cleaning activities.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Before any inspection, the contracting officer will determine whether another VA facility or another Federal agency has recently inspected and approved the plant.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contracting officer will accept an approved inspection report of another VA facility.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) If another Federal agency made a plant inspection not more than 6 months before the proposed VA contract period, the contracting officer may accept an approved inspection report of that other Federal agency as satisfactory evidence that the facilities of the bidder meet the bid requirements.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) VA will not conduct a pre-award on-site evaluation of a dairy plant when VA receives an acceptable bid from a supplier of dairy products designated as No.1 in the Federal Specifications if the following conditions are met:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The supplier has received a pasteurized milk rating of 90 percent or more for the type of product being supplied, on the basis of the U.S. Public Health Service milk ordinance and code.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The rating is current (not over 2 years old) and has been determined by a certified State milk sanitation rating officer in the State of origin or by the Public Health Service. The contractor must maintain the rating of 90 percent or more during the period of the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The solicitation specifications must include the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) A dairy plant that does not meet paragraph (c) of this section may offer only dairy products designated as No. 2 in the Federal Specifications. VA will make an award to such a firm only after it completes a pre-award on-site evaluation conducted under paragraph (a) of this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Before it makes an open market purchase of fresh bakery products (such as pies, cakes, and cookies), VA will inspect and evaluate the plant where these products are produced or prepared under paragraph (a) of this section. VA will make an on-site evaluation at least annually and record the results on VA Form 10-2079, Inspection Report of Bakery.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
