<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_219_11_T48_50216422130">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.219-11</ph> VA Notice of Total Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 819.7009, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">VA Notice of Total Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (DEC 2009)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definition.</i> For the Department of Veterans Affairs, “Veteran-owned small business concern” - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Means a small business concern - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The business meets Federal small business size standards for the applicable North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code identified in the solicitation document; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The business has been verified for ownership and control and is so listed in the Vendor Information Pages database, (<i>http://www.VetBiz.gov</i>).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) “Veteran” is defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2).
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>General.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Offers are solicited only from veteran-owned small business concerns. All service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses are also determined to be veteran-owned small businesses if they meet the criteria identified in paragraph (a)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			of this section. Offers received from concerns that are not veteran-owned small business concerns shall not be considered.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any award resulting from this solicitation shall be made to a veteran-owned small business concern.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Agreement.</i> A veteran-owned small business concern agrees that in the performance of the contract, in the case of a contract for - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Services (except construction), at least 50 percent of the cost of personnel for contract performance will be spent for employees of the concern or employees of other eligible veteran-owned small business concerns;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Supplies (other than acquisition from a non-manufacturer of the supplies), at least 50 percent of the cost of manufacturing, excluding the cost of materials, will be performed by the concern or other eligible veteran-owned small business concerns;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) General construction, at least 15 percent of the cost of the contract performance incurred for personnel will be spent on the concern's employees or the employees of other eligible veteran-owned small business concerns; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Construction by special trade contractors, at least 25 percent of the cost of the contract performance incurred for personnel will be spent on the concern's employees or the employees of other eligible veteran-owned small business concerns.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) A joint venture may be considered a veteran-owned small business concern if:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) At least one member of the joint venture is a veteran-owned small business concern, and makes the following representations: That it is a veteran-owned small business concern, and that it is a small business concern under the NAICS code assigned to the procurement;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Each other concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The joint venture meets the requirements of paragraph 7 of the explanation of Affiliates in 19.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) The joint venture meets the requirements of 13 CFR 125.15(b), except that the principal company may be a veteran-owned small business concern or a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Any veteran-owned small business concern (non-manufacturer) must meet the requirements in 19.102(f) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation to receive a benefit under this program.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
