<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_228_73_T48_50216422139">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.228-73</ph> Indemnification of Contractor - Hazardous Research Projects.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 828.7003, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Indemnification of Contractor - Hazardous Research Projects (MAR 2018)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) This contract involves work with a risk of an unusually hazardous nature as specifically defined in the contract. The government shall indemnify the Contractor, including subcontractors of any tier, against losses or liability specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause if - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The losses or liability arise out of or results from a risk defined in this contract as unusually hazardous; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The losses or liability are not covered by the financial protection required by paragraph (c).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Government shall indemnify a Contractor for - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Liability (including reasonable expenses of litigation or settlement) to third persons for death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property from a risk that the contract defines as unusually hazardous. This indemnification shall not cover liability under State or Federal worker's injury compensation laws to employees of the Contractor who are both:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Employed at the site of the contract work; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Working on the contract for which indemnification is granted.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Government shall also indemnify the Contractor for loss of or damage to property of the Contractor from a risk that the contract defines as unusually hazardous.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) A Contractor shall have and maintain an amount of financial protection to cover liability to third persons and loss of or damage to the Contractor's property. Financial protection may include private insurance, private contractual indemnities, self-insurance, other proof of financial responsibility, or a combination that provides the maximum amount required. The financial protection provided must meet one of the following - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The maximum amount of insurance available from private sources; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) A lesser amount that the Secretary establishes after taking into consideration the cost and terms of private insurance.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) Actions in event of a claim - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of any claim or suit against the Contractor for death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Government may elect to control or assist in the defense of any suit or claim for which indemnification is provided in the contract.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
