<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_819_705_T48_5021219512">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">819.705</ph> Appeal of Contracting Officer decisions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Acquisitions not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold (SAT) and 819.7007 and 819.7008 are excluded from this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) When an interested party intends to appeal a contracting officer's decision to not use the set-aside authority contained in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>, the party shall notify the contracting officer, in writing, of its intent to challenge the decision. The contracting officer has 5 working days to reply to the challenge by either revising the strategy or indicating the rationale for not setting-aside the requirement. Upon receipt of the decision, the interested party may appeal to the Head of the Contracting Activity (HCA). Such appeal shall be filed within 5 working days of receipt of the contracting officer's decision. The HCA has 5 working days to respond to the appeal. The contracting officer shall suspend action on the acquisition unless the HCA makes a written determination that urgent circumstances exist which would significantly affect the interests of the government. The decision of the HCA shall be final.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Prime contractors submitting businesses declared ineligible for credit in SDVOSB and/or VOSB subcontracting plans may appeal to the Executive Director, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization and Center for Veterans Enterprise (00VE), U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20420, within 5 working days of receipt of information declaring their subcontractor ineligible. The Executive Director shall have 5 working days to respond. The decision of the Executive Director may be appealed to the Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) within 5 working days. The SPE shall have 15 working days to respond and that decision shall be final.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
