<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_801_603_70_T48_502925123">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">801.603-70</ph> Representatives of contracting officers.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) In carrying out the responsibilities of FAR 1.602-2, the contracting officer may designate another Government employee as COTR to perform the functions in this section and 801.603-71.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Except as indicated in 801.603-71, a designation under this section must be in writing, must define the scope and limitation of the representative's authority, and must be addressed to the COTR with a copy forwarded to the contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The COTR may not re-delegate authority received under this paragraph.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer may not authorize a representative to make any commitment or change that will affect the price, quantity, quality, or delivery terms of a contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) A contracting officer acting within his or her warranted contracting authority must authorize any change to a contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) A contracting officer may authorize his or her technical representative to do the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Furnish technical guidance and advice or generally supervise the work performed under the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Take any action authorized in the contract, such as issuing a delivery order, rejecting an unsatisfactory item, ordering a replacement of an unsatisfactory item (materials or services) or declaring a contractor in default on specific delivery orders.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Except for a contract for blood, the contracting officer may delegate this authority only to other Government contracting officers under centralized indefinite delivery type contracts and the contract will so state.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) A centralized contract for blood must state that a contracting officer at an ordering office may designate representatives and alternate representatives to place a delivery order subject to the same restrictions in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Place an oral or other informal delivery order for items such as, but not limited to, bread, milk, and blood against a local indefinite delivery type contract for which there is a blanket purchase arrangement and for which funds have been obligated.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) In the administration of research and development contracts, any representative appointed under this section must be acceptable to the contracting officer and the head of the organization concerned.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) When the contracting officer intends to designate a representative under this section for a particular solicitation or contract, the contracting officer must include the clause in 852.270-1, Representatives of contracting officers, in the solicitation and contract.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
