<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_232_72_T48_50216422143">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.232-72</ph> Electronic Submission of Payment Requests.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 832.7001-2, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Electronic Submission of Payment Requests (NOV 2018)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this clause - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Contract financing payment</i> has the meaning given in FAR 32.001;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Designated agency office</i> means the office designated by the purchase order, agreement, or contract to first receive and review invoices. This office can be contractually designated as the receiving entity. This office may be different from the office issuing the payment;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Electronic form</i> means an automated system transmitting information electronically according to the accepted electronic data transmission methods and formats identified in paragraph (c) of this clause. Facsimile, email, and scanned documents are not acceptable electronic forms for submission of payment requests;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Invoice payment</i> has the meaning given in FAR 32.001; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Payment request</i> means any request for contract financing payment or invoice payment submitted by the Contractor under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Electronic payment requests.</i> Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause, the Contractor shall submit payment requests in electronic form. Purchases paid with a Government-wide commercial purchase card are considered to be an electronic transaction for purposes of this rule, and therefore no additional electronic invoice submission is required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Data transmission.</i> A Contractor must ensure that the data transmission method and format are through one of the following:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) VA's Electronic Invoice Presentment and Payment System at the current website address provided in the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any system that conforms to the X12 electronic data interchange (EDI) formats established by the Accredited Standards Center (ASC) and chartered by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Invoice requirements.</i> Invoices shall comply with FAR 32.905.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Exceptions.</i> If, based on one of the circumstances in this paragraph (e), the Contracting Officer directs that payment requests be made by mail, the Contractor shall submit payment requests by mail through the United States Postal Service to the designated agency office. Submission of payment requests by mail may be required for - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Awards made to foreign vendors for work performed outside the United States;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Classified contracts or purchases when electronic submission and processing of payment requests could compromise the safeguarding of classified or privacy information;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Contracts awarded by Contracting Officers in the conduct of emergency operations, such as responses to national emergencies;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Solicitations or contracts in which the designated agency office is a VA entity other than the VA Financial Services Center in Austin, Texas; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Solicitations or contracts in which the VA designated agency office does not have electronic invoicing capability as described above.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
