<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_873_108_T48_5021746018">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">873.108</ph> Publicizing contract actions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) All competitive acquisitions under this part, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, for dollar amounts in excess of the SAT, shall be publicly announced utilizing a medium designed to permit all responsible sources, as appropriate under the provisions of this part, to submit a bid, proposal, or quotation (as appropriate).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The publication medium may include the internet, including the Governmentwide point of entry (GPE), and local, regional or national publications or journals, as appropriate, at the discretion of the contracting officer, depending on the complexity of the acquisition.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Notice shall be published for a reasonable time prior to issuance of a solicitation, depending on the complexity or urgency of the acquisition, in order to afford potential offerors a reasonable opportunity to respond. If the notice includes a complete copy of the request for quotation (RFQ) or solicitation, a prior notice is not required, and the RFQ or solicitation shall be considered to be announced and issued at the same time.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The notice may include contractor qualification parameters, such as time for delivery of service, credentialing or medical certification requirements, small business or other socio-economic preferences, the appropriate small business size standard, and such other qualifications as the contracting officer deems necessary to meet the needs of the Government. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The requirement for public announcement does not apply to sole source acquisitions described in 873.104(a). However, as required by 38 U.S.C. 8153(a)(3)(D), acquisitions from an institution not affiliated with the VA in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7302, if conducted on a sole source basis, must still be justified and publicized (see 873.104(b)(2)). (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) For acquisitions below the SAT, a public announcement is optional. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Each solicitation issued under the procedures in this part must prominently identify that the requirement is being solicited under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8153 and this part. (38 U.S.C. 8153)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
