<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_237_70_T48_50216422155">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.237-70</ph> Indemnification and Medical Liability Insurance.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 837.403-70(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Indemnification and Medical Liability Insurance (OCT 2019)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) It is expressly agreed and understood that this is a non-personal services contract, as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 37.101, under which the professional services rendered by the Contractor or its health-care providers are rendered in its capacity as an independent contractor. The Government may evaluate the quality of professional and administrative services provided but retains no control over professional aspects of the services rendered including, by example, the Contractor's or its health-care providers' professional medical judgment, diagnosis, or specific medical treatments. The Contractor and its health-care providers shall be liable for their liability-producing acts or omissions. The Contractor shall maintain or require all health-care providers performing under this contract to maintain, during the term of this contract, professional liability insurance issued by a responsible insurance carrier of not less than the following amount(s) per specialty per occurrence: [<i>Contracting Officer's Note: Insert the dollar amount value(s) of standard coverage(s) prevailing within the local community as to the specific medical specialty, or specialties, concerned, or such higher amount as the Contracting Officer deems necessary to protect the Government's interests.</i>] However, if the Contractor is an entity or a subdivision of a State that either provides for self-insurance or limits the liability or the amount of insurance purchased by State entities, then the insurance requirement of this contract shall be fulfilled by incorporating the provisions of the applicable State law.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) An apparently successful offeror, upon request of the Contracting Officer, shall, prior to contract award, furnish evidence of the insurability of the offeror and/or of all health-care providers who will perform under this contract. The submission shall provide evidence of insurability concerning the medical liability insurance required by paragraph (a) of this clause or the provisions of State law as to self-insurance, or limitations on liability or insurance.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor shall, prior to commencement of services under the contract, provide to the Contracting Officer Certificates of Insurance or insurance policies evidencing the required insurance coverage and an endorsement stating that any cancellation or material change adversely affecting the Government's interest shall not be effective until 30 days after the insurer or the Contractor gives written notice to the Contracting Officer. Certificates or policies shall be provided for the Contractor and/or each health-care provider who will perform under this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer within 5 days of becoming aware of a change in insurance providers during the performance period of this contract for all health-care providers performing under this contract. The notification shall provide evidence that the Contractor and/or health-care providers will meet all the requirements of this clause, including those concerning liability insurance and endorsements. These requirements may be met either under the new policy, or a combination of old and new policies, if applicable.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor shall insert the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts for health-care services under this contract. The Contractor shall be responsible for compliance by any subcontractor or lower-tier subcontractor with the provisions set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. At least 5 days before the commencement of work by any subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer evidence of such insurance.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
