<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_809_407_3_T48_50210102115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">809.407-3</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Any individual may submit a referral to suspend an individual or contractor to the SDO or to the S&amp;D Committee. Referrals shall include supporting evidence of a cause for suspension listed in FAR 9.407-2. The SDO shall forward the referral to the S&amp;D Committee. If the referring individual is a VA employee and the referral for suspension is based on possible criminal or fraudulent activities, the VA employee shall also refer the matter to the VA Office of Inspector General.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) When the S&amp;D Committee finds adequate evidence of a cause for suspension, as listed in FAR 9.407-2, it shall prepare a recommendation and draft notice of suspension for the SDO's consideration.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) VA shall send the notice of suspension to the last known address of the individual or contractor, the individual or contractor's counsel, or agent for service of process, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or any other means that allows for confirmation of delivery. In the case of a contractor, VA may send the notice of suspension to any partner, principal, officer, director, owner or co-owner, or joint venture. The S&amp;D Committee concurrently shall list the appropriate parties as excluded in SAM in accordance with FAR 9.404.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) If VA receives a reply from the contractor within 30 days after receipt of the notice of suspension, the S&amp;D Committee shall consider the information in the reply before the Committee makes further recommendations to the SDO. The S&amp;D Committee, upon the request of a suspended contractor, shall, as soon as practicable, allow the contractor an opportunity to appear before the S&amp;D Committee to present information or argument personally or through a representative. The contractor may supplement the oral presentation with written information and argument. The proceeding will be conducted in an informal manner and without requirement for a transcript.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) For the purposes of FAR 9.407-3(b)(2), Decision making process, in actions not based on an indictment, if the S&amp;D Committee finds that the contractor's submission in opposition to the suspension raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension, the S&amp;D Committee shall submit to the SDO the information establishing the dispute of material facts. However, the S&amp;D Committee may first coordinate any further proceeding regarding the material facts in dispute with the Department of Justice or with a State prosecuting authority in a case involving a State jurisdiction. VA shall take no further action to determine disputed material facts pursuant to this section or 809.470 if the Department of Justice or a State prosecuting authority advises VA in writing that additional proceedings to make such a determination would prejudice Federal or State legal proceedings.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) If the SDO agrees that there is a genuine dispute of material facts, the SDO shall refer the dispute to the designee for resolution pursuant to 809.470.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
