<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_873_107_T48_5021746017">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">873.107</ph> Socioeconomic programs.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Veterans First Contracting Program in VAAR subpart 819.70 takes precedence over other small business programs. (38 U.S.C. 8127-8128)
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Except for contract actions subject to 808.002(a)(2), competitive contract actions not otherwise excluded under this part shall be set-aside for VIP-listed service-disabled veteran-owned small business (SDVOSB) concerns or veteran-owned small business (VOSB) concerns if the contracting officer has a reasonable expectation that two or more eligible small business concerns owned and controlled by Veterans will submit offers and that the award can be made at a fair and reasonable price that offers best value to the United States. (38 U.S.C. 8127-8128)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer shall proceed with the acquisition under the simplified procedures of this part considering priority sources (see 808.008(a)(2) and 873.103) and preferences for other small businesses in accordance with 819.203-70 and 819.7004. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Without regard to FAR 13.003(b)(1), 19.203, 19.502, the head of the contracting activity (HCA) may approve a waiver from the requirement for any set-aside for small business participation when a waiver is determined to be in the best interest of the Government. (38 U.S.C. 8153)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The contracting officer shall ensure priorities for veteran-owned small businesses are implemented within the VA hierarchy of small business program preferences, established by 38 U.S.C. 8127 and 8128, as implemented in VAAR subpart 819.70, the Veterans First Contracting Program. Specifically, the contracting officer shall consider preferences for verified service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses (SDVOSBs) first, then preferences for verified veteran-owned small businesses (VOSBs). These priorities will be followed by preferences for other small business concerns in accordance with FAR 19.203, 819.203-70, and 819.7004. (38 U.S.C. 8153)




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
