<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_847_207_70_T48_5021540113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">847.207-70</ph> VA solicitation provisions, contract clauses, and special requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Insurance under patient transportation contracts.</i> The contracting officer shall ensure that all the proper certificates of insurance are submitted to perform on the contract, as outlined in the solicitation, and subsequently included in the contract file. In accordance with 828.306, the contracting officer shall insert the provision at 852.228-71, Indemnification and Insurance, in solicitations when utilizing term contracts or contracts of a continuing nature for ambulance, automobile and aircraft service. When contracting for these services, consider using requirements language such as the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Written proof of insurance coverage as required and outlined in the solicitation is required prior to award of any contract. Coverage must be maintained continually through the life of the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Within 10 days of notification of acceptance and pending award of contract, the contractor shall furnish to the contracting officer a certificate of insurance which shall contain an endorsement to the effect that cancellation of, or any material change in, the policies which adversely affect the interests of the Government in such insurance shall not be effective unless a 30-day advance written notice of cancellation or change is furnished to the contracting officer.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Within 10 days of notification of acceptance and pending award of contract, and prior to award of a contract, the contractor shall furnish to the contracting officer a copy of the contractor's current and valid Worker's Compensation certificate.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Contractor personnel.</i> The contracting officer shall ensure that contractor personnel have the appropriate level of training, experience, licensure, and pertinent qualifications to ensure patient safety. When contracting for these services, consider using requirements language such as the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) All contractor personnel performing contract services shall meet the qualifications as specified in the contract, as well as any qualifications required by Federal, State, County, and local Government entities from the place in which they operate. Contractor personnel shall meet these qualifications at all times while performing contract services.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) During the contract period of performance, if the contractor proposes to add-on, or replace personnel to perform contract services, the contractor shall submit required evidence of training, certifications, licensing, background, and security clearances, and any other applicable qualifications to the designated contracting officer's representative (COR). At no time shall the contractor utilize add-on or replacement personnel to perform contract services who do not meet the qualifications under the terms and conditions of the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Records of contractor personnel qualifications and eligibility to perform on the contract must be current and maintained throughout the life of the contract, and be made available for inspection upon request. The contractor shall forward to the contracting officer, on an annual basis, a list of contractor employees listing the employees name, position(s), and licenses and/or certifications and their current certification number. This annual statement of driver competency must include any advanced certifications, such as Advanced Cardiac Life Support or specialized training to assist and secure patients by stretcher or wheelchair, as applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Within seven (7) days after receipt of award notification, the contractor shall provide evidence of required training, certifications, licensing and any other qualifications of any personnel who will be performing services under the contract. The initial documentation shall be provided to the contracting officer and COR.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contracts must include requirements to report vehicle accidents and incidents to the contracting officer with a formal accident report.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Contracts for ambulance services must require that the contractor meet the current specifications of Federal Specification KKK-A-1822E, “Star of Life Ambulance” standard.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Contracts must include requirements to ensure patient safety is maintained through the consistent practice of securing patient care equipment, other cargo, and vehicles, and ensure that security of patients in vehicles is established and observed when transportation needs are either primary or secondary in the actual performance of the contract. When contracting for these services, consider using requirements language to ensure that patient transportation meets industry standards for transporting patients based on the patient's condition/needs (<i>e.g.,</i> wheelchair, ambulatory, on stretcher, etc.).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
