<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_813_003_70_T48_5021114011">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">813.003-70</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Veterans First Contracting Program in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref> applies to VA contracts, orders and BPAs under this part and has precedence over other small business programs referenced in FAR parts 13 and 19.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Notwithstanding FAR 13.003(b)(2), the contracting officer shall make an award utilizing the priorities for veteran-owned small businesses as implemented within the VA hierarchy of small business program preferences, the Veterans First Contracting Program in subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197"
                  href="Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197.dita#Subpart_819_70_T48_50212197">819.70</xref>. Specifically, the contracting officer shall consider preferences for verified service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses (SDVOSBs) first, then preferences for verified veteran-owned small businesses (VOSBs). These priorities will be followed by preferences for other small businesses in accordance with FAR 19.203, and 819.7004.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) When using competitive procedures, the preference for restricting competition to verified SDVOSBs/VOSBs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section is mandatory whenever market research provides a reasonable expectation of receiving two or more offers/quotes from eligible, capable and verified firms at fair and reasonable prices that offer best value to the Government.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127, contracts under this part shall be set-aside for SDVOSBs/VOSBs, in accordance with 819.7005 or 819.7006 when supported by market research. Contracting officers shall use the applicable set-aside clause prescribed at 819.7009.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8128 and to the extent that market research does not support an SDVOSB or VOSB set-aside, the contracting officer shall include evaluation factors as prescribed at 815.304 and the evaluation criteria clause prescribed at 815.304-71(a).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The SDVOSB and VOSB eligibility requirements in 819.7003 apply, including verification of the SDVOSB and VOSB status of an offeror, and other small business requirements in 13 CFR part 121 and 13 CFR 125.6 (<i>e.g.,</i> small business representation, nonmanufacturer rule, and subcontracting limitations).
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
