<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_801_602_72_T48_50292517">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">801.602-72</ph> Exceptions and additional review requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) In addition to the general review requirements in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_801_602_71_T48_50292516"
                  href="Section_801_602_71_T48_50292516.dita#Section_801_602_71_T48_50292516">801.602-71</xref>, contracting officers must obtain technical reviews from Acquisition Resources Service staff of any proposed agreement that is unique, novel, or unusual.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Contracting officers must obtain technical reviews from Acquisition Resources Service staff of the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Documents relating to bonds (see FAR 28.102-1 and 28.203 through 28.203-5) as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) An irrevocable letter of credit.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) A tripartite escrow agreement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) An individual surety bond. (Note that the FAR at 28.203(f) also requires legal review of the documents pledging the assets of an individual surety.)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Proposed novation and change-of-name agreements (see FAR Subpart 42.12).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Solicitations or proposed contracts containing an economic price adjustment clause (other than a pre-approved VA clause) based on a cost index of material or labor (e.g., the urban consumer price index (CPI-U) (see FAR 16.203-4(d)) or where one of the economic price adjustment clauses specified in FAR 16.203-4 are used.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Proposed multi-year contracts where the cancellation ceiling exceeds 20 percent of the contract amount, regardless of the dollar value of the proposed contract (see 817.105-1(b)).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Proposed solicitations where the contract term total of the basic and option periods may exceed 5 years, regardless of the dollar value of the proposed acquisition (see 817.204).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Proposed membership agreements in a group purchasing organization.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) A proposed termination settlement or determination of amounts due the contractor under a terminated contract that involves the expenditure of $100,000 or more of Government funds. Acquisition Resources Service staff shall obtain legal review (see 849.111-70).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) Consignment agreements with an anticipated expenditure of $250,000 or more per year (except for a consignment agreement established under, and provided for in, a Federal Supply Schedule contract).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contracting officers, including purchase card holders, must obtain technical and legal review of all proposed contracts with hotels or similar facilities for conferences or similar functions (e.g., training, meetings) where VA's commitment, expenditure, and liability (combined) exceed $25,000. This dollar figure is based on the combination of all direct costs to VA under the contract (e.g., conference rooms, audio-visual charges, refreshments, catering) and all potential liability (e.g., room guarantee liability, cancellation costs). Even if there is no direct cost to VA, if the proposed contract includes a guarantee on room usage or a cancellation fee that could potentially exceed $25,000, the proposed contract requires legal and technical review. Signing a contract committing VA to hold a conference at a particular hotel is a procurement and procurement laws and regulations must be followed.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
