<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_209_70_T48_5021642215">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.209-70</ph> Organizational Conflicts of Interest.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 809.507-1(b), insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Organizational Conflicts of Interest (OCT 2020)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) It is in the best interest of the Government to avoid situations which might create an organizational conflict of interest or where the Offeror's performance of work under the contract may provide the Contractor with an unfair competitive advantage. The term “organizational conflict of interest” means that because of other activities or relationships with other persons, a person is unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government, or the person's objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or the person has an unfair competitive advantage.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Offeror shall provide a statement with its offer which describes, in a concise manner, all relevant facts concerning any past, present, or currently planned interest (financial, contractual, organizational, or otherwise) or actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest relating to the services to be provided under this solicitation. The Offeror shall also provide statements with its offer containing the same information for any consultants and subcontractors identified in its proposal and which will provide services under the solicitation. The Offeror may also provide relevant facts that show how its organizational and/or management system or other actions would avoid or mitigate any actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Based on this information and any other information solicited or obtained by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer may determine that an organizational conflict of interest exists which would warrant disqualifying the Contractor for award of the contract unless the organizational conflict of interest can be mitigated to the Contracting Officer's satisfaction by negotiating terms and conditions of the contract to that effect. If the conflict of interest cannot be mitigated and if the Contracting Officer finds that it is in the best interest of the United States to award the contract, the Contracting Officer shall request a waiver in accordance with FAR 9.503.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Nondisclosure or misrepresentation of actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest at the time of the offer or arising as a result of a modification to the contract, may result in the termination of the contract at no expense to the Government.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of Provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
