<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_215_70_T48_50216422117">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.215-70</ph> Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned and Veteran-Owned Small Business Evaluation Factors.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 815.304-71(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned and Veteran-Owned Small Business Evaluation Factors (OCT 2019)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) In an effort to achieve socioeconomic small business goals, VA shall evaluate offerors based on their service-disabled veteran-owned or veteran-owned small business status and their proposed use of eligible service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses (SDVOSBs) and veteran-owned small businesses (VOSBs) as subcontractors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Eligible service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses offerors will receive full credit, and offerors qualifying as veteran-owned small businesses will receive partial credit for the Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned and Veteran-Owned Small Business Status evaluation factor. To receive credit, an offeror must be registered and verified in the Vendor Information Pages (VIP) database.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Non-Veteran offerors proposing to use SDVOSBs or VOSBs as subcontractors will receive some consideration under this evaluation factor. Offerors must state in their proposals the names of the SDVOSBs and VOSBs with whom they intend to subcontract and provide a brief description of the proposed subcontracts and the approximate dollar values of the proposed subcontracts. In addition, the proposed subcontractors must be registered and verified in the VIP database.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), any business concern that is determined by VA to have willfully and intentionally misrepresented a company's SDVOSB/VOSB status is subject to debarment for a period of not less than five years. This includes the debarment of all principals in the business.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
