<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_871_210_T48_50217452115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">871.210</ph> Correspondence courses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Contracts with institutions for correspondence courses must provide for the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Major changes in courses or course material are not binding on the VA until a supplemental agreement to the contract is negotiated.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Minor changes in course or course material not affecting the length of the course or number of lessons and not lowering the educational value of the course or the quality of the course material, such as revision of text, the substitution of a newer lesson for an older one, or the substitution of equipment of equal or greater value, are permitted without supplemental agreements. The institution must place such minor changes and revisions on file with the contracting officer at the time of the change or revision.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Trainees must be provided with prompt and adequate lessons service and, unless otherwise specified in the contract, must be furnished the same texts, lessons service, diplomas, and other services as are normally provided for regularly enrolled non-veteran students.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) All lessons must be adequately serviced on an individual basis. Grouping of lessons into units or partial servicing does not meet this requirement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Each lesson must have a separate examination that is adequate in terms of lesson content.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The training of persons under a VA contract or the fact that the United States is using the facilities of the institution for training veterans must not be used in any way to advertise the institution. References in the advertising media or correspondence of the institution shall be limited to a list of courses under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 31 and must not be directed or pointed specifically to veterans.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) The rates, fees, and charges must not be in excess of those charged nonveterans.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) Payment must be made on a lesson-completed basis in areas for assignments sent in by trainees and serviced during a pay period as established by the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) Payment must be made only once for each lesson even though it is necessary to service a lesson more than once.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
