<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_871_207_T48_50217452112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">871.207</ph> Payment of tuition or fees.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contracts, agreements, or arrangements requiring the payment of tuition or fees must provide either of the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Payment for tuition or fees must be made in arrears and must be prorated in installments over the school year or the length of the course.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) An institution may be paid in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, if the institution operates on a regular term, quarter, or semester basis and normally accepts students only at the beginning of the term, quarter, or semester and if the institution is one of the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) An institution of higher learning that uses a standard unit of credit recognized by accrediting associations. Such institutions include those that are members of recognized national or regional educational accrediting associations, and those that, although not members of such accrediting associations, grant standard units of credit acceptable at full value without examination by collegiate institutions that are members of national or regional accrediting associations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) A public tax-supported institution.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) An institution operated and controlled by a State, county, or local board of education.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) An institution that meets the exceptions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section and that has a refund policy providing for a graduated scale of charges for purposes of determining refunds may be paid part or all such tuitions or fees for a term, quarter, or other period of enrollment immediately following the date on which the refund expires.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Proration of charges does not apply to a fee for noncontinuing service, such as a registration fee, etc.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The period for which payment of charges may be made is the period of actual enrollment and is subject to the following:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The effective date is the date of the trainee's entrance into training status, except that payment may be made for an entire semester, quarter, or term in institutions operating on that basis if the trainee enters no later than the final date set by the institution for enrolling for full credit.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) In those cases where the institution has not set a final date for enrolling for full credit or does not set a date acceptable to VA, payment may be prorated on the basis of attendance, regardless of the refund policy.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) If an institution customarily charges for the amount of credit or number of hours of attendance for which a trainee enrolls, payment may be made on that basis when a trainee enrolls after the final date permitted for carrying full credit for the semester or term.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
