<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_801_690_8_T48_502925139">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">801.690-8</ph> Interim appointment provisions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) To ensure availability of procurement support, an interim appointment may be granted for a limited period of time when a candidate does not fully meet the minimum qualifications for Experience, Education, or successful completion of all acquisition Training requirements in previous VA regulations or VA internal guidance, if applicable, or as provided in the OFPP Memorandum dated January 20, 2006, titled “the Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting Program.” All interim appointments made after January 1, 2007, for individuals who do not meet the minimum Experience, Education, or Training requirements for Levels I through III warrants shall be signed by the SPE or, if so delegated, the ACM, without power to redelegate, as provided in the OFPP Memorandum dated January 20, 2006, titled “the Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting Program.”
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) In a request for an interim appointment, the HCA must include the information required by <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_801_690_4_T48_502925135"
                  href="Section_801_690_4_T48_502925135.dita#Section_801_690_4_T48_502925135">801.690-4</xref> on the candidate's training, experience, performance, and education, and a justification for the interim appointment.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The HCA must ensure that the candidate with interim appointment meets the minimum Experience, Education, and Training requirements within the time specified on the warrant.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A contracting officer with interim appointment should successfully complete all remaining required courses or equivalent courses within the time specified on the warrant.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) At the HCA's written request, a permanent warrant may be issued during the interim appointment period when the contracting officer has satisfactorily met the requirements. The appropriate documentation (copies of course certificates) must be submitted with the HCA's request.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) An interim appointment may be appropriate for instances such as organizational changes or sudden, extreme, and unexpected increases in workload complexity and/or volume.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Interim appointments will not be granted under the following circumstances:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) To a candidate who is warranted but does not meet the Education or Training requirements for higher level (e.g., from Level I warrant to Level II warrant) contracting authority (unless waived by the SPE);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) To a candidate who does not have a current record of satisfactory-or-above performance; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) To a contracting officer whose authority has expired and who has not met the continuing education requirement during the two preceding years.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Generally, an interim appointment may not exceed one year.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
