<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_801_602_75_T48_502925110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">801.602-75</ph> Review requirements - OGC.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contracting officers must obtain legal review or concurrence from OGC for the following categories of proposed contractual actions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Each contract termination, final decision, cure letter, or “show cause” notice proposed under any contract where the total value of the contract is $100,000 or more. A contracting officer may not sign or release a document subject to this provision until OGC has concurred.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Each dispute or claim from a contractor involving a potential total dollar value of $100,000 or more. A contracting officer may not sign or release a document subject to this provision until OGC has concurred.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Each proposed contract modification, including any proposed modification to a supply or service contract, where the total value of the modification is $100,000 or more (e.g., a modification for a $60,000 increase and a $50,000 decrease equals $110,000). Contract modifications issued only to exercise contract options are exempt from this review requirement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Each proposed contract modification granting a time extension of more than 60 days. The Director, Acquisition Resources Service, may waive the pre-approval requirement under this paragraph for an individual facility when the Director determines that the facility has obtained appropriate “consideration” for past time extensions and the extensions were otherwise appropriately granted.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Each proposed modification increasing the value of a letter contract, regardless of dollar value.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Each proposed contract modification for which the contractor takes exception to the accord and satisfaction language specified by VA. The contracting officer may not execute any proposed contract modification under this requirement until the contracting officer receives OGC's concurrence in the proposed language.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) An assignment of claims (see FAR Subpart 32.8).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) Each change or revision to a FAR or VAAR provision or clause or an internal VA-approved clause (e.g., architect/engineer “SP” clauses) not specifically authorized by the regulations.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(9) Each change or revision to a prescribed VA contract form.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(10) A proposed utility construction or connection contract with an anticipated contract award value of $50,000 or more.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(11) Each proposed novation and change-of-name agreement (see 842.1203).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) For an action specified in paragraph (a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			or (2) of this section, OGC may comment or concur in writing or by telephone.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) When a Central Office contracting activity requests legal assistance, the contracting officer will brief OGC on the facts and points of issue to facilitate prompt resolution.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) For each solicitation or contract awarded and administered by a Central Office contracting activity, that contracting activity will ask OGC to participate in conferences where legal problems or modifications to contract provisions may be considered and in meetings attended by legal representatives of private parties or other Government agencies. The contracting activity will request assigned procurement counsel participation in drafting correspondence involving significant controversial or sensitive contractual matters.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) OGC will prepare any response to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on GAO bid protests. (See 833.104).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
