<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_216_73_T48_50216422123">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.216-73</ph> Economic Price Adjustment - State Nursing Home Care for Veterans.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 816.203-4(e)(3), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Economic Price Adjustment - State Nursing Home Care for Veterans (MAR 2018)
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">This clause does not apply to rates for non-Medicaid nursing homes.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Rate Determination.</i> The per diem rate is established by the current Medicaid rate for Medicaid approved nursing home care plus a fair market amount (percentage) to cover the costs of supplies, services, and equipment above that provided under Medicaid established by the local State Medicaid Agency (SMA). Rates established after the effective date of this contract will require a modification to the contract by the Contacting Officer.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Medicaid rate covers room, board, and routine nursing care services.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) For all levels of nursing care a percentage is added for routine ancillary services/supplies, such as drugs, nursing supplies, oxygen (occasional use), x-ray, laboratory, physician visits, and rental equipment.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) Special equipment, <i>e.g.</i> Clinitron bed, is not considered routine ancillary services (and may not be provided by the VA).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) Drug costs which comprise more than eight and one-half percent (8.5%) of the per diem rate are generally not considered routine ancillary supplies (and may not be provided by the VA).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) Rehabilitation therapies will be provided as distinct levels of care, <i>i.e.,</i> skilled, intermediate, and custodial care. Hospice Care and Dialysis are not included in the rate. Payment for Hospices and Dialysis services is provided by the VA or other payers as determined by the Veteran with the VA's approval.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Economic Price Adjustment.</i> This clause does not apply to ancillary services that may be added or deleted from the agreement.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The per diem rate(s) will apply throughout the term of this contract, including extension period(s). The rate(s) may be adjusted only to reflect a change in a Medicaid rate as authorized by the SMA. Normally, this will be on an annual basis. The negotiated percentage above the Medicaid rate, to cover the all-inclusive nature of the contract, will not be renegotiated; but will be applied and added to the new Medicaid rate for the adjusted per diem rate for each level of care item. In this regard, new rates will be negotiated requiring a modification to the contact. Each per diem price adjustment under this clause is subject to the following limitations:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any adjustment shall be limited to the effect of increases or decreases in the approved SMA's patient care components within the affected Medicaid groups.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) Adjustments will occur no more frequently than those issued by the SMA.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) No adjustments are made until the Contracting Officer receives from the SMA an authenticated copy of the new rates signed and dated at the top right of the document by the authorized nursing home official. Within ten days after this occurs, the Contracting Officer will execute an approval signature and date at the approximate locations of the nursing home official's signature, the action of which will serve as the effective date of the adjusted rate. A copy of the fully executed document will be sent to the nursing home official for record keeping purposes.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
