<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_102_T48_5021642112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.102</ph> Incorporating provisions and clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) As authorized by FAR 52.102(c), any 48 CFR chapter 8 (VAAR) provision or clause may be incorporated in a quotation, solicitation, or contract by reference, provided the contracting officer complies with the requirements stated in FAR 52.102(c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3). To ensure compliance with FAR 52.102(c)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			and (c)(2), contracting officers shall insert the provision found at 852.252-70, Solicitation provisions or clauses incorporated by reference, in full text in a quotation, solicitation, or contract if the quotation, solicitation, or contract incorporates by reference a FAR or 48 CFR chapter 8 (VAAR) provision or clause that requires completion by the offeror or prospective contractor and submittal with the quotation or offer.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) For any FAR or 48 CFR chapter 8 (VAAR) provision or clause that requires completion by the contracting officer, the contracting officer shall, as a minimum, insert the title of the provision or clause and the paragraph that requires completion in full text in the quotation, solicitation, or contract. The balance of the provision or clause may be incorporated by reference.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) When one or more FAR or 48 CFR chapter 8 (VAAR) provisions, or portions thereof, are incorporated in a quotation or solicitation by reference, the contracting officer shall insert in the quotation or solicitation the provision found at FAR 52.252-1, Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) When one or more FAR or 48 CFR chapter 8 (VAAR) clauses, or portions thereof, are incorporated in a quotation, solicitation, or contract by reference, the contracting officer shall insert in the quotation, solicitation, or contract the clause found at FAR 52.252-2, Clauses Incorporated by Reference.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) If one or more FAR provisions or clauses, or portions thereof, are incorporated in a quotation, solicitation, or contract by reference, the contracting officer shall insert in the FAR provision or clause required by paragraph (c) or (d) of this section the following internet address: <i>https://www.acquisition.gov/browse/index/far.</i>
                              </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) If one or more 48 CFR chapter 8 (VAAR) provisions or clauses, or portions thereof, are incorporated in a quotation, solicitation, or contract by reference, the contracting officer shall insert in the FAR provision or clause required by paragraph (c) or (d) of this section the following internet address: <i>https://www.acquisition.gov/vaar.</i>
                              </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
