<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_236_80_T48_50216422151">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.236-80</ph> Subcontracts and Work Coordination.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 836.574, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Subcontracts and Work Coordination (APR 2019)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Nothing contained in this contract shall be construed as creating any contractual relationship between any subcontractor and the Government. Divisions or sections of specifications are not intended to control the Contractor in dividing work among subcontractors, or to limit work performed by any trade.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall be responsible to the Government for acts and omissions of his/her own employees, and of the subcontractors and their employees. The Contractor shall also be responsible for coordination of the work of the trades, subcontractors, and material suppliers.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Government or its representatives will not undertake to settle any differences between the Contractor and subcontractors or between subcontractors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Government reserves the right to refuse to permit employment on the work, or require dismissal from the work, of any subcontractor or subcontractor employee who, by reason of previous unsatisfactory work on Department of Veterans Affairs projects or for any other reason, is considered by the Contracting Officer to be incompetent, careless, or otherwise objectionable.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> 
                                    <i>(APR 2019).</i> For new construction work with complex mechanical-electrical work, the following paragraph relating to work coordination may be substituted for paragraph (b) of the basic clause:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall be responsible to the Government for acts and omissions of his/her own employees, and subcontractors and their employees. The Contractor shall also be responsible for coordination of the work of the trades, subcontractors, and material suppliers. The Contractor shall, in advance of the work, prepare coordination drawings showing the location of openings through slabs, the pipe sleeves and hanger inserts, as well as the location and elevation of utility lines, including, but not limited to, conveyor systems, pneumatic tubes, ducts, and conduits and pipes two inches and larger in diameter. These drawings, including plans, elevations, and sections as appropriate, shall clearly show the manner in which the utilities fit into the available space and relate to each other and to existing building elements. Drawings shall be of appropriate scale to satisfy the previously stated purposes, but not smaller than 
3/8-inch scale. Drawings may be composite (with distinctive colors for the various trades) or may be separate but fully coordinated drawings (such as sepias or photographic paper reproducibles) of the same scale. Separate drawings shall depict identical building areas or sections and shall be capable of being overlaid in any combination. The submitted drawings for a given area of the project shall show the work of all trades that will be involved in that particular area. Six complete composite drawings or six complete sets of separate reproducible drawings shall be received by the Government not less than 20 days prior to the scheduled start of the work in the area illustrated by the drawings, for the purpose of showing the Contractor's planned methods of installation. The objectives of such drawings are to promote carefully planned work sequence and proper trade coordination, in order to assure the expeditious solutions of problems and the installation of lines and equipment as contemplated by the contract documents while avoiding or minimizing additional costs to the Contractor and to the Government. In the event the Contractor, in coordinating the various installations and in planning the method of installation, finds a conflict in location or elevation of any of the utilities with themselves, with structural items or with other construction items, he/she shall bring this conflict to the attention of the Contracting Officer immediately. In doing so, the Contractor shall explain the proposed method of solving the problem or shall request instructions as to how to proceed if adjustments beyond those of usual trades' coordination are necessary. Utilities installation work will not proceed in any area prior to the submission and completion of the Government review of the coordinated drawings for that area, nor in any area in which conflicts are disclosed by the coordination drawings, until the conflicts have been corrected to the satisfaction of the Contracting Officer. It is the responsibility of the Contractor to submit the required drawings in a timely manner consistent with the requirements to complete the work covered by this contract within the prescribed contract time.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
