<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_223_71_T48_50216422135">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.223-71</ph> Safety and Health.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed by 823.303-70, the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Safety and Health (SEP 2019)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) To help ensure the protection of the life and health of all persons, and to help prevent damage to property, the Contractor shall comply with all Federal, State, and local laws and regulations applicable to the work being performed under this contract. These laws are implemented or enforced by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and other regulatory/enforcement agencies at the Federal, State, and local levels.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Additionally, the Contractor shall comply with the following regulations when developing and implementing health and safety operating procedures and practices for both personnel and facilities involving the use or handling of hazardous materials and the conduct of research, development, or test projects:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne pathogens; 29 CFR 1910.1450, Occupational exposure to hazardous chemicals in laboratories. These regulations are available at <i>https://www.osha.gov/.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Nuclear Regulatory Commission Standards and Regulations, pursuant to the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5801 <i>et seq.</i>) Copies are available from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The following Government guidelines are recommended for developing and implementing health and safety operating procedures and practices for both personnel and facilities:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), available at <i>http://www.cdc.gov/biosafety/publications/index.htm.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Prudent Practices in the Laboratory, National Research Council, National Academy Press, Washington, DC 20001, available at <i>http://www.nap.edu.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Contractor shall maintain an accurate record of, and promptly report to the Contracting Officer, all accidents or incidents resulting in the exposure of persons to toxic substances, hazardous materials; the injury or death of any person; or damage to property incidental to work performed under the contract resulting from toxic or hazardous materials and resulting in any or all violations for which the Contractor has been cited by any Federal, State or local regulatory/enforcement agency.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The report shall include a copy of the notice of violation and the findings of any inquiry or inspection, and an analysis addressing the impact these violations may have on the work remaining to be performed. The report shall also state the required action(s), if any, to be taken to correct any violation(s) noted by the Federal, State, or local regulatory/enforcement agency and the time frame allowed by the agency to accomplish the necessary corrective action.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) If the Contractor fails or refuses to comply with the Federal, State or local regulatory/enforcement agency's directive(s) regarding any violation(s) and prescribed corrective action(s), the Contracting Officer may issue an order stopping all or part of the work until satisfactory corrective action (as approved by the Federal, State, or local regulatory/enforcement agencies) has been taken and documented to the Contracting Officer. No part of the time lost due to any such stop work order shall form the basis for a request for extension or costs or damages by the Contractor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor shall insert this clause in each subcontract involving toxic substances or hazardous materials. The Contractor is responsible for the compliance of its subcontractors with the provisions of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
