<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_852_207_70_T48_5021642214">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">852.207-70</ph> Report of Employment under Commercial Activities.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 807.304-77 and 873.110, the following clause will be included in A-76 cost comparison solicitations and solicitations issued under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 8151-8153 that may result in conversion from in-house to contract performance of work:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Report of Employment Under Commercial Activities (JAN 2008) 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) Consistent with the Government post-employment conflict of interest regulations, the contractor shall give adversely affected Federal personnel the right of first refusal for all employment openings under this contract for which they are qualified.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Definitions.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Adversely affected Federal personnel</i> means:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Permanent Federal personnel who are assigned to the government commercial activity, or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Federal personnel who are identified for release from their competitive levels or separated as a result of the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Employment openings</i> means position vacancies created by this contract that the contractor is unable to fill with personnel in the contractor's employ at the time of the contract award. The term includes positions within a 50-mile radius of the commercial activity that indirectly arise in the contractor's organization as a result of the contractor's reassignment of employees due to the award of this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Contract start date</i> means the first day of contractor performance.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Filling employment openings.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			For a period beginning with contract award and ending 90 calendar days after the contract start date, no person other than adversely affected Federal personnel on the current listing provided by the contracting officer shall be offered an employment opening until all adversely affected and qualified Federal personnel identified by the contracting officer have been offered the job and refused it.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contractor may select any person for an employment opening when there are no qualified adversely affected Federal personnel on the latest current listing provided by the contracting officer.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Contracting reporting requirements.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			No later than 5 working days after contract award, the contractor shall furnish the contracting officer with the following:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) A list of employment openings including salaries and benefits, and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Sufficient job application forms for adversely affected Federal personnel.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) By the contract start date, the contractor shall provide the contracting officer with the following:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) The names of adversely affected Federal personnel offered an employment opening;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The date the offer was made;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) A brief description of the position;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The date of acceptance of the offer and the effective date of employment;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(v) The date of rejection of the offer, if applicable, and the salary and benefits contained in the rejected offer; and
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vi) The names of any adversely affected Federal personnel who applied but were not offered employment and the reason(s) for withholding an offer.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) For the first 90 calendar days after the contract start date, the contractor shall provide the contracting officer with the names of all persons hired or terminated under the contract within 5 working days of such hiring or termination.
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Information provided to the contractor.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			No later than 10 calendar days after the contract award, the contracting officer shall furnish the contractor a current list of adversely affected Federal personnel exercising the right of first refusal, along with their completed job application forms.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Between the contract award and start dates, the contracting officer shall inform the contractor of any reassignment or transfer of adversely affected Federal personnel to other Federal positions.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) For a period of up to 90 calendar days after the contract start date, the contracting officer will periodically provide the contractor with an updated listing of adversely affected Federal personnel reflecting personnel who were recently released from their competitive levels or separated as a result of the contract award.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Qualifications determination.</i> The contractor has a right under this clause to determine adequacy of the qualifications of adversely affected Federal personnel for any employment openings. However, adversely affected Federal personnel who held jobs in the Government commercial activity that directly correspond to an employment opening shall be considered qualified for the job. Questions concerning the qualifications of adversely affected Federal personnel for specific employment openings shall be referred to the contracting officer for determination. The contracting officer's determination shall be final and binding on all parties.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Relating to other statutes, regulations and employment policies.</i> The requirements of this clause shall not modify or alter the contractor's responsibilities under statutes, regulations or other contract clauses pertaining to the hiring of veterans, minorities, or persons with disabilities.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Penalty for noncompliance.</i> Failure of the contractor to comply with any provision of the clause may be grounds for termination for default.</p>
                              <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
