<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1819_7202_T48_6041917512">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1819.7202</ph> Eligibility.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Eligibility of Mentors: To be eligible as a mentor, an entity must be - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) A large prime contractor performing with at least one approved subcontracting plan, other than a commercial plan, negotiated with NASA, pursuant to FAR Subpart 19.7, the Small Business Subcontracting Program. A contractor may apply to become a mentor if they currently are not performing under a NASA contract as long as they are currently performing another Federal agency contract with an approved subcontracting plan. The NASA mentor-protégé agreement, however, will not be approved until the mentor company is performing under a NASA contract with an approved subcontracting plan; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Eligible for receipt of Government contracts. An entity will not be approved for participation in the Program if, at the time of submission of the application to the Headquarters Office of Small Business Programs, the entity is currently debarred or suspended from contracting with the Federal Government pursuant to FAR Subpart 9.4, Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Eligibility of Protégés: To be eligible to participate as a protégé, an entity must be - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Classified as a Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB), a small disadvantaged business, a women-owned small business, a historically underutilized business zone concern, a veteran-owned, service-disabled small business, a historically black college and university, or a minority institution. The protégé entity may also be an active NASA SBIR/STTR Phase II company, or an entity participating in the AbilityOne program.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Eligible for the award of Federal contracts; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A small business according to the Small Business Administration (SBA) size standard for the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code that represents the contemplated supplies or services to be provided by the protégé to the mentor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) A protégé firm may self-certify to a mentor firm that it meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Mentors may rely in good faith on written representations by potential protégés that they meet the specified eligibility requirements.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
