<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_213_70_T48_60423441110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.213-70</ph> Offeror Representations and Certifications - Other Than Commercial Items.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111"
                  href="Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111.dita#Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111">1813.302-570</xref>, insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Offeror Representations and Certifications - Other Than Commercial Items (JUL 2004) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this provision -  
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Emerging small business” means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard for the NAICS code designated. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Forced or indentured child labor” means all work or service -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern” -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Means a small business concern -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Small business concern” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and size standards in this solicitation.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Women-owned small business concern” means a small business concern -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701).</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationships with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] TIN:_____________. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] TIN has been applied for. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] TIN is not required because: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP1-2">[ ] Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP1-2">[ ] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP1-2">[ ] Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Type of organization.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Sole proprietorship; 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Partnership; 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Corporate entity (tax-exempt); 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Government entity (Federal, State, or local); 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Foreign government; 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Other _____.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Common parent.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-2">[ ] Name and TIN of common parent: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP1-2">Name ______________. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP1-2">TIN_____________.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a small business concern. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a veteran-owned small business concern. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it [ ] is, [ ] is not a women-owned small business concern. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Small Business Size for the Small Business Competitiveness 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Demonstration Program and for the Targeted Industry Categories under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. [Complete only if the offeror has represented itself to be a small business concern under the size standards for this solicitation.] 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) [Complete only for solicitations indicated as being set-aside for emerging small businesses in one of the four designated industry groups (DIGs).] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [ ] is, [ ] is not an emerging small business. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(ii) [Complete only for solicitations indicated as being for one of the targeted industry categories (TICs) or four designated industry groups (DIGs).] Offeror represents as follows:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(A) Offeror's number of employees for the past 12 months (check the Employees column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees); or 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(B) Offeror's average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years (check the Average Annual Gross Number of Revenues column if size standard stated in the solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(Check one of the following): 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="DIV">
                                       
                                          <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <tgroup cols="2" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1">Number of
employees 
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2">Average annual
gross revenues 
</entry>
                                             </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> - 50 or fewer</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"> - $1 million or less. 
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> - 51-100</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"> - $1,000,001-$2 million. 
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> - 101-250</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"> - $2,000,001-$3.5 million. 
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> - 251-500</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"> - $3,500,001-$5 million. 
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> - 501-750</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"> - $5,000,001-$10 million. 
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> - 751-1000</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"> - $10,000,001-$17 million. 
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left"> - Over 1000</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"> - Over $17 million.</entry>
                                             </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                       
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(7) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: _____.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(8) (Complete if dollar value of the resultant contract is expected to exceed $25,000 and the offeror has represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (c)(4) of this provision.) [The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls]: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1"> -  Black American. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1"> -  Hispanic American. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1"> -  Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1"> -  Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1"> -  Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1"> -  Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246 - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) It [ ] has, [ ] has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) It [ ] has, [ ] has not filed all required compliance reports. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) It [ ] has developed and has on file, [ ] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR parts 60-1 and 60-2), or 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) It [ ] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Buy American Act Certificate.</i> (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act - Supplies, is included in this solicitation.) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products. The terms “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act-Supplies.” 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Foreign End Products: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">Line Item No. and Country of Origin 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">[List as necessary]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR part 25. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) or (f)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,” “foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are NAFTA country end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act: NAFTA Country or Israeli End Products: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">Line Item No. and Country of Origin 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">[List as necessary]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act - North American Free Trade Agreement - Israeli Trade Act.” The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Other Foreign End Products: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">Line Item No. and Country of Origin 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">[List as necessary]
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR part 25. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(2) Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I (JAN 2004). If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (f)(1)(ii) for paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act”: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Canadian End Products: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">Line Item No. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">(List as necessary)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(3) Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II (JAN 2004). If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (f)(1)(ii) for paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act - Free Trade Agreements - Israeli Trade Act”: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Canadian or Israeli End Products: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">Line Item No. and Country of Origin
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">[List as necessary]
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made, designated country, Caribbean Basin country, or FTA country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Trade Agreements.” 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made, designated country, Caribbean Basin country, or NAFTA country end products. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Other End Products: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">Line Item No. and Country of Origin 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">[List as necessary] 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR part 25. For line items subject to the Trade Agreements Act, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made, designated country, Caribbean Basin country, or FTA country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made, designated country, Caribbean Basin country, or FTA country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (g)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at FAR 22.1503(b).] 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Listed end products. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">Listed End Product and Listed Countries of Origin 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (g)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (g)(2)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			or (g)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (g)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (g)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision) 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (MAR 2004) As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111"
                  href="Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111.dita#Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111">1813.302-570</xref>(a)(2)(i), add the following paragraph to the end of the basic provision and identify appropriately: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">( ) Recovered Material Certification. As required by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(i)), the offeror certifies, that the percentage of recovered materials to be used in the performance of the contract will be at least the amount required by the applicable contract specifications.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate II</i> (MAR 2004) As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111"
                  href="Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111.dita#Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111">1813.302-570</xref>(a)(2)(ii), add the following paragraph to the end of the basic provision and identify appropriately:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">( ) Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Definitions. As used in this provision -  
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Historically black college or university” means an institution determined by the Secretary of Education to meet the requirements of 34 CFR 608.2. For the Department of Defense, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the Coast Guard, the term also includes any nonprofit research institution that was an integral part of such a college or university before November 14, 1986. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“Minority institution” means an institution of higher education meeting the requirements of Section 1046(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067k, including a Hispanic-serving institution of higher education, as defined in Section 316(b)(1) of the Act (20 U.S.C. 1101a)). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(2) Representation. The offeror represents that it -  
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">( ) is ( ) is not a historically black college or university; 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">( ) is ( ) is not a minority institution.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate III</i> (MAR 2004) As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111"
                  href="Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111.dita#Section_1813_302_570_T48_6041812111">1813.302-570</xref>(a)(2)(iii), add the following paragraph to the end of the basic provision and identify appropriately:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">( ) Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			This solicitation sets forth the work to be performed if a contract award results, and the Government's known delivery requirements for data (as defined in FAR 27.401). Any resulting contract may also provide the Government the option to order additional data under the Additional Data Requirements clause at FAR 52.227-16, if included in the contract. Any data delivered under the resulting contract will be subject to the Rights in Data-General clause at FAR 52.227-14 that is to be included in this contract. Under the latter clause, a Contractor may withhold from delivery data that qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software, and deliver form, fit, and function data in lieu thereof. The latter clause also may be used with its Alternates II and/or III to obtain delivery of limited rights data or restricted computer software, marked with limited rights or restricted rights notices, as appropriate. In addition, use of Alternate V with this latter clause provides the Government the right to inspect such data at the Contractor's facility. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) As an aid in determining the Government's need to include Alternate II or Alternate III in the clause at FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General, the offeror shall complete paragraph (3) of this provision to either state that none of the data qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software, or identify, to the extent feasible, which of the data qualifies as limited rights data or restricted computer software. Any identification of limited rights data or restricted computer software in the offeror's response is not determinative of the status of such data should a contract be awarded to the offeror. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(3) The offeror has reviewed the requirements for the delivery of data or software and states [offeror check appropriate block] - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">( ) None of the data proposed for fulfilling such requirements qualifies as limited rights data or restricted computer software. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">( ) Data proposed for fulfilling such requirements qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software and are identified as follows: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
                                 
                                    <p>
            <b>Note:</b>
         </p>
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">“Limited rights data” and “Restricted computer software” are defined in the contract clause entitled “Rights in Data-General.”</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
