<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_219_11_T48_60423441140">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.219-11</ph> Special 8(a) contract conditions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1819_811_3_T48_6041917213"
                  href="Section_1819_811_3_T48_6041917213.dita#Section_1819_811_3_T48_6041917213">1819.811-3</xref>(a), insert the following clause in lieu of 52.219-11:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Special 8(a) Contract Conditions (APR 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This contract is issued as a direct award between the contracting activity and the 8(a) contractor pursuant to a Partnership Agreement between the Small Business Administration (SBA) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Accordingly, the SBA is not a signatory to this contract. SBA does retain responsibility for 8(a) certification, 8(a) eligibility determinations and related issues, and providing counseling and assistance to the 8(a) contractor under the 8(a) program. The cognizant SBA district office is:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">(<i>insert name and address of cognizant SBA office</i>)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contracting activity is responsible for administering the contract and taking any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the contract; provided, however, that the contracting activity shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract. The contracting activity shall also coordinate with the SBA prior to processing any novation agreement. The contracting activity may assign contract administration functions to a contract administration office.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor agrees to notify the Contracting Officer, simultaneous with its notification to SBA (as required by SBA's 8(a) regulations), when the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility is based plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern. Consistent with Section 407 of Public Law 100-656, transfer of ownership or control shall result in termination of the contract for convenience, unless SBA waives the requirement for termination prior to the actual relinquishing of ownership and control.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
