<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1815_403_170_T48_6041814312">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1815.403-170</ph> Waivers of certified cost or pricing data.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) NASA has waived the requirement for the submission of certified cost or pricing data when contracting with the Canadian Commercial Corporation (CCC). This waiver applies to the CCC and its subcontractors. The CCC will provide assurance of the fairness and reasonableness of the proposed price. This assurance should be relied on; however, contracting officers shall ensure that the appropriate level of data other than certified cost or pricing data is submitted by subcontractors to support any required proposal analysis, including a technical analysis and a cost realism analysis. The CCC also will provide for follow-up audit activity to ensure that any excess profits are found and refunded to NASA.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) NASA has waived the requirement for the submission of certified cost or pricing data when contracting for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program Phase II contracts. However, contracting officers shall ensure that the appropriate level of data other than certified cost or pricing data is submitted to determine price reasonableness and cost realism.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
