<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1852_217_71_T48_60423441138">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1852.217-71</ph> Phased acquisition using down-selection procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1817_7002_T48_6041816212"
                  href="Section_1817_7002_T48_6041816212.dita#Section_1817_7002_T48_6041816212">1817.7002</xref>(a), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Phased Acquisition Using Down-Selection Procedures (APR 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) This solicitation is for the acquisition of ____________ [insert Program title]. The acquisition will be conducted as a two-phased procurement using a competitive down-selection technique between phases. In this technique, two or more contractors will be selected for Phase 1. It is expected that the single contractor for Phase 2 will be chosen from among these contractors after a competitive down-selection.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Phase 1 is for the ___________ [insert purpose of phase]. Phase 2 is for ___________ [insert general Phase 2 goals].
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The competition for Phase 2 will be based on the results of Phase 1, and the award criteria for Phase 2 will include successful completion of Phase 1 requirements.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) NASA will issue a separate, formal solicitation for Phase 2 that will include all information required for preparation of proposals, including the final evaluation factors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Phase 2 will be synopsized in the Governmentwide Point of Entry (GPE) in accordance with FAR 5.201 and 5.203 unless one of the exceptions in FAR 5.202 applies. Notwithstanding NASA's expectation that only the Phase 1 contractors will be capable of successfully competing for Phase 2, all proposals will be considered.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) To be considered for Phase 2 award, offerors must demonstrate a design maturity equivalent to that of the Phase 1 contractors. This, demonstration shall include the following Phase 1 deliverables upon which Phase 2 award will be based: _______________ [(insert the specific Phase 1 deliverables]. Failure to fully and completely demonstrate the appropriate level of design maturity may render the proposal unacceptable with no further consideration for contract award.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) The following draft Phase 2 evaluation factors are provided for your information. Please note that these evaluation factors are not final, and NASA reserves the right to change them at any time up to and including the date upon which Phase 2 proposals are solicited.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[Insert draft Phase 2 evaluation factors (and subfactors, if available), including demonstration of successful completion of Phase 1 requirements.]
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) Although NASA will request Phase 2 proposals from Phase contractors, submission of the Phase 2 proposal is not a requirement of the Phase 1 contract. Accordingly, the costs of preparing these proposals shall not be a direct charge to the Phase 1 contract or any other Government contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) The anticipated schedule for conducting this phased procurement is provided for your information. These dates are projections only and are not intended to commit NASA to complete a particular action at a given time. [Insert dates below].
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Phase 1 award - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Phase 2 synopsis - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Phase 2 proposal requested - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Phase 2 proposal receipt - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Phase 2 award - </p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
