<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2419_803_70_T48_6095117413">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2419.803-70</ph> Procedures for simplified acquisitions under the partnership agreement.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) HUD contracting officers may use the procedures of FAR part 13 and HUDAR part 2413 to make purchases not exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold from 8(a) Participants. The following apply to such acquisitions:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Neither offering letters to, nor acceptance letters from the SBA are required.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer will use the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database on the Internet (<i>http://www.ccr.gov</i>) to establish that the selected 8(a) firm is a current program participant.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Once an 8(a) contractor has been identified, the contracting officer will establish the price with the selected 8(a) contractor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) For acquisitions requiring an award document (e.g., purchase order), the contracting officer will:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Prepare and issue an award document in accordance with the applicable provisions of FAR part 13 and HUDAR part 2413. The applicable clauses prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2419_811_3_T48_60951174116"
                  href="Section_2419_811_3_T48_60951174116.dita#Section_2419_811_3_T48_60951174116">2419.811-3</xref> shall be included in the award document. The contracting officer will issue the award document directly to the 8(a) firm; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Forward to the SBA District Office serving the 8(a) firm a copy of the award document within 5 days after the award is issued.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
