<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_237_77_T48_60955371139">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.237-77</ph> Temporary closure of HUD facilities.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2437_110_T48_6095330111"
                  href="Section_2437_110_T48_6095330111.dita#Section_2437_110_T48_6095330111">2437.110</xref>(e)(4), insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Temporary Closure of HUD Facilities (MAR 2016)
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Department of Housing and Urban Development observes the following days as holidays - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">New Year's Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Martin Luther King's Birthday
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Washington's Birthday
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Memorial Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Independence Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Labor Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Columbus Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Veterans Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Thanksgiving Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Christmas Day
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Any other day designated by Federal law, Executive Order or Presidential Proclamation.</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) When any holiday specified in (a)(1) falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed. When any such holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. Observances of such days by Government personnel shall not be cause for additional period of performance or entitlement to compensation except as set forth in the contract. If the contractor's personnel work on a holiday, no form of holiday or other premium compensation will be reimbursed either as a direct or indirect cost, unless authorized pursuant to an overtime clause elsewhere in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			HUD may close a HUD facility for all or a portion of a business day as a result of - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			Granting administrative leave to non-essential HUD employees (e.g., unanticipated holiday);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(B) Inclement weather;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(C) Failure of Congress to appropriate operational funds;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(D) Or any other reason.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(2) In such cases, contractor personnel not classified as essential, i.e., not performing critical round-the-clock services or tasks, who are not already on duty at the facility shall not report to the facility. Such contractor personnel already present shall be dismissed and shall leave the facility.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(3) The contractor agrees to continue to provide sufficient personnel to perform round-the-clock requirements of critical tasks already in operation or scheduled for performance during the period in which HUD employees are dismissed, and shall be guided by any specific instructions of the Contracting Officer or his/her duly authorized representative.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) When contractor personnel services are not required or provided due to closure of a HUD facility as described in this clause, the contractor shall be compensated as follows - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) For fixed-price contracts, deductions in the contractor's price will be computed as follows - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			The deduction rate in dollars per day will be equal to the per month contract price divided by the number of business days in each month.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(B) The deduction rate in dollars per day will be multiplied by the number of days services are not required or provided.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">If services are provided for portions of days, appropriate adjustment will be made by the Contracting Officer to ensure that the contractor is compensated for services provided.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(2) For cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials and labor-hour type contracts, HUD shall not reimburse as direct costs, the costs of salaries or wages of contractor personnel for the period during which such personnel are dismissed from, or do not have access to, the facility.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
