<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_244_70_T48_60955371147">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.244-70</ph> Consent to subcontract.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HUDAR Section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2444_204_T48_6095432111"
                  href="Section_2444_204_T48_6095432111.dita#Section_2444_204_T48_6095432111">2444.204</xref>(a), insert the following clause in contracts and task orders with an estimated value exceeding $10,000,000.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Consent to Subcontract (Mar 2016)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Due to the substantive nature of subcontracting that may be necessary during performance of this contract, the Contracting Officer has determined that a consent for individual subcontracts is required to adequately protect the Government. Consent is required for -
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials, or labor-hour subcontracts, or combination of such, in excess of $150,000 per year to a single subcontractor or consultant;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Fixed price subcontracts in excess of 25% of the annual contract value to a single subcontractor or consultant.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If subcontracts meeting the above parameters were not provided during the negotiation of the original contract award, the Contractor shall obtain post award consent and provide signed copies of the subcontract agreements within 10 days of consent.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor shall provide the Contracting Officer with 30 days advance notification prior to changing subcontractors or existing subcontracting agreements, unless precluded due to circumstances beyond the control of the contractor. If advance notification is not feasible, the Contractor shall provide notification to the Contracting Officer no later than 10 days after the Contractor identifies the need to replace a subcontractor. The notification shall include a copy of the proposed new subcontracting agreement. Upon consent and finalization of the final subcontract agreement, the Contractor shall provide a copy of the signed agreement to the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contracting Officer's consent to a subcontract does not constitute a determination of the acceptability of the subcontract terms or price, or of the allowability of costs.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) If not required elsewhere in the contract, no more than 30 calendar days after award, the Contractor shall provide a separate continuity of services plan to the Contracting Officer that will ensure services performed by subcontractors that cost more than 25% of the cost/price of the contract will continue uninterrupted in the event of performance problems or default by the subcontractor.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
