<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2433_104_T48_6095227114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2433.104</ph> Protests to GAO.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>General.</i> When advised by GAO of the receipt of a protest, the Office of General Counsel shall immediately inform the contracting activity. The Contracting Officer shall notify the Office of General Counsel upon receipt of the copy of the protest from the protestor.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Upon receipt by the Department of a written request for a formal report relating to a protest, the Office of General Counsel, with appropriate assistance from the Contracting Officer, shall prepare and file the report in accordance with GAO requirements at 4 CFR part 21.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Protests after award.</i> Protests received after award shall be treated in the same manner as those filed with GAO before award in accordance with paragraphs (a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			and (a)(2) of this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Findings and notice.</i> When the Contracting Officer makes a determination to award a contract notwithstanding a protest as authorized by FAR 33.104(b)(1)(i-ii), or to continue contractor performance as authorized by FAR 33.104(c)(2), that determination of the intent to make an award or to continue contract performance shall be approved by the HCA after consultation with the Office of General Counsel.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Notice to GAO.</i> If the HCA proposes not to comply with a GAO recommendation concerning the resolution of a protest of a procurement award, prior to reporting to the Comptroller General concerning that decision, the HCA shall obtain the concurrence of the Office of General Counsel and the Senior Procurement Executive.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
