<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2452_209_72_T48_6095537116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2452.209-72</ph> Organizational conflicts of interest.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 2409.508-2, insert the following contract clause in all contracts.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Organizational Conflicts of Interest (APR 1984)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor warrants that to the best of its knowledge and belief and except as otherwise disclosed, he or she does not have any organizational conflict of interest which is defined as a situation in which the nature of work under a Government contract and a Contractor's organizational, financial, contractual or other interests are such that:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Award of the contract may result in an unfair competitive advantage; or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Contractor's objectivity in performing the contract work may be impaired.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor agrees that if after award he or she discovers an organizational conflict of interest with respect to this contract, he or she shall make an immediate and full disclosure in writing to the Contracting Officer which shall include a description of the action which the Contractor has taken or intends to take to eliminate or neutralize the conflict.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The Government may, however, terminate the contract for the convenience of the Government if it would be in the best interest of the Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) In the event the Contractor was aware of an organizational conflict of interest before the award of this contract and intentionally did not disclose the conflict to the Contracting Officer, the Government may terminate the contract for default.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The provisions of this clause shall be included in all subcontracts and consulting agreements wherein the work to be performed is similar to the service provided by the prime contractor. The Contractor shall include in such subcontracts and consulting agreements any necessary provisions to eliminate or neutralize conflicts of interest.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
