<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_915_404_4_70_7_T48_50320153112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">915.404-4</ph>-70-7 Alternative techniques.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Profit or fees to be paid on construction contracts and construction management contracts shall be determined in accordance with the applicable profit/fee technique for such contracts set forth in 915.404-4-71.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Profit and fee to be paid on contracts under the threshold stated at 48 CFR 15.403-4(a)(1), not using the weighted guidelines, shall be judgmentally developed by the contracting officer by assigning individual dollar amounts to the factors appropriate to DOE profit considerations discussed in 915.404-4-70-2(d).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contracts which require only delivery or furnishing of goods or services supplied by subcontractors shall include a fee or profit which, in the best judgment of the contracting officer, is appropriate. It would be expected that there would be a declining relationship of profit/fee dollars in relation to total costs. The higher the cost of subcontracts, for example, the lower the profit/fee ratio to these costs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Profit/Fee considerations in termination settlements are often a question of equity. They are a matter of negotiation. They should not, however, exceed what would have otherwise been payable under weighted guidelines had the termination not occurred.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
