<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_225_71_T48_50325402139">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.225-71</ph> Compliance with export control laws and regulations (Export Clause)</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 925.7102, use the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Compliance With Export Control Laws and Regulations (NOV 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contractor shall comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor's responsibility to comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations exists independent of, and is not established or limited by, the information provided by this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Nothing in the terms of this contract adds to, changes, supersedes, or waives any of the requirements of applicable Federal laws, Executive Orders, and regulations, including but not limited to - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 <i>et seq.</i>), as amended;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 <i>et seq.</i>);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. app. 2401 <i>et seq.</i>), as continued under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (Title II of Pub. L. 95-223, 91 Stat. 1626, October 28, 1977; 50 U.S.C. 1701 <i>et seq.</i>);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 5(b), as amended by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Assistance to Foreign Atomic Energy Activities (10 CFR part 810);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) Export and Import of Nuclear Equipment and Material (10 CFR part 110);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120 through 130);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(8) Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR Parts 730 through 774); and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(9) The regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury (31 CFR parts 500 through 598).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) In addition to the Federal laws and regulations cited above, National Security Decision Directive (NSDD) 189, National Policy on the Transfer of Scientific, Technical, and Engineering Information, establishes a national policy that, to the maximum extent possible, the products of fundamental research shall remain unrestricted. NSDD 189 provides that no restrictions may be placed upon the conduct or reporting of federally funded fundamental research that has not received national security classification, except as provided in applicable U.S. statutes. As a result, contracts confined to the performance of unclassified fundamental research generally do not involve any export-controlled activities.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">NSDD 189 does not take precedence over statutes. NSDD 189 does not exempt any research from statutes that apply to export controls such as the Atomic Energy Act, as amended; the Arms Export Control Act; the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended; or the U.S. International Emergency Economic Powers Act, or regulations that implement parts of those statutes (<i>e.g.,</i> the ITAR, the EAR, 10 CFR part 110 and 10 CFR part 810). Thus, if items (<i>e.g.,</i> commodities, software or technologies) that are controlled by U.S. export control laws or regulations are used to conduct research or are generated as part of the research efforts, export control laws and regulations apply to the controlled items.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (e), in all solicitations and subcontracts.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
