<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_926_7006_T48_5032123116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">926.7006</ph> Goal measurement and reporting requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> The following types of contract awards for Energy Policy Act procurements shall be counted toward achievement by DOE of the 10 percent goal - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Any award set-aside for small disadvantaged business;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any competitive section 8(a) award;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Any competitive award to one of the three target groups under an unrestricted procurement;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Any award to one of the three target groups conducted under simplified acquisition procedures in excess of the micro-purchase threshold; and,
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Any competitively awarded subcontract to one of the three target groups under a prime award.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Prime contract awards.</i> Award values and dollars obligated under prime contracts and modifications to prime contracts for Energy Policy Act requirements shall be reported through the Department of Energy Procurement and Assistance Data System.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Subcontract awards.</i> The contractor shall be required to report, on an annual Federal Government fiscal year basis, its progress against Section 3021 goals by providing the actual dollar value of subcontract payments and the relationship of those payments to the incurred contract cost. If the contract includes reporting requirements under 48 CFR 52.219-9, Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business Subcontracting Plan, the contractor's progress against the Section 3021 goals shall be included as an addendum to Standard Form (SF) 294, Subcontracting Report for Individual Contracts, and/or SF 295, Summary Subcontract Report, as applicable, for the period that corresponds to the end of the Federal Government fiscal year.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
