<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_927_409_T48_5032224319">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">927.409</ph> Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. (DOE coverage-paragraphs (a), (h), (s), and (t))</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer shall insert the clause at FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General, substituting the following paragraph (a) and including the following paragraph (d)(3) and Alternate V in solicitations and contracts if it is contemplated that data will be produced, furnished, or acquired under the contract; except contracting officers are authorized to use Alternate IV rather than paragraph (d)(3) in contracts for basic or applied research with educational institutions except where software is specified for delivery or except where other special circumstances exist: 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Computer data bases,</i> as used in this clause, means a collection of data in a form capable of, and for the purpose of, being stored in, processed, and operated on by a computer. The term does not include computer software. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Computer software,</i> as used in this clause, means 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			computer programs which are data comprising a series of instructions, rules, routines, or statements, regardless of the media in which recorded, that allow or cause a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations and (ii) data comprising source code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae, and related material that would enable the computer program to be produced, created, or compiled. The term does not include computer data bases. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Data,</i> as used in this clause, means recorded information, regardless of form or the media on which it may be recorded. The term includes technical data and computer software. For the purposes of this clause, the term does not include data incidental to the administration of this contract, such as financial, administrative, cost and pricing, or management information. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Form, fit, and function data,</i> as used in this clause, means data relating to items, components, or processes that are sufficient to enable physical and functional interchangeability, as well as data identifying source, size, configuration, mating, and attachment characteristics, functional characteristics, and performance requirements; except that for computer software it means data identifying source, functional characteristics, and performance requirements but specifically excludes the source code, algorithm, process, formulae, and flow charts of the software. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Limited rights data,</i> as used in this clause, means data, other than computer software, developed at private expense that embody trade secrets or are commercial or financial and confidential or privileged. The Government's rights to use, duplicate, or disclose limited rights data are as set forth in the Limited Rights Notice of subparagraph (g)(2) of this section if included in this clause. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Restricted computer software,</i> as used in this clause, means computer software developed at private expense and that is a trade secret; is commercial or financial and is confidential or privileged; or is published copyrighted computer software, including minor modifications of any such computer software. The Government's rights to use, duplicate, or disclose restricted computer software are as set forth in the Restricted Rights Notice of subparagraph (g)(3) of this section if included in this clause. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) <i>Technical data,</i> as used in this clause, means recorded data, regardless of form or characteristic, that are of a scientific or technical nature. Technical data does not include computer software, but does include manuals and instructional materials and technical data formatted as a computer data base. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(8) <i>Unlimited rights,</i> as used in this clause, means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, including by electronic means, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner, including by electronic means, and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or permit others to do so. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d)(3) The Contractor agrees not to assert copyright in computer software first produced in the performance of this contract without prior written permission of the DOE Patent Counsel assisting the contracting activity. When such permission is granted, the Patent Counsel shall specify appropriate terms, conditions, and submission requirements to assure utilization, dissemination, and commercialization of the data. The Contractor, when requested, shall promptly deliver to Patent Counsel a duly executed and approved instrument fully confirmatory of all rights to which the Government is entitled.</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) However, rights in data in these specific situations will be treated as described, where the contract is - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) For the production of special works of the type set forth in FAR 27.405(a), but the clause at FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data-General, shall be included in the contract and made applicable to data other than special works, as appropriate (See paragraph (i) of FAR 27.409); 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) For the acquisition of existing data works, as described in FAR 27.405(b) (See paragraph (j) of FAR 27.409); 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) To be performed outside the United States, its possessions, and Puerto Rico, in which case agencies may prescribe different clauses (See paragraph (n) of FAR 27.409); 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) For architect-engineer services or construction work, in which case contracting officers shall utilize the clause at FAR 52.227-17, Rights in Data-Special Works; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(v) A Small Business Innovation Research contract (See paragraph (l) of FAR 27.409); 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vi) For management and operation of a DOE facility (see 48 CFR 970.2704) or other contracts involving the production of data necessary for the management or operation of DOE facilities or a DOE site, after consultation with Patent Counsel (See 927.402-1(b)); or 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Awarded pursuant to a statute expressly providing authority for the protection of data first produced thereunder from disclosure or dissemination. (See 927.404-70). 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at FAR 52.227-16, Additional Data Requirements, in solicitations and contracts involving experimental, developmental, research, or demonstration work (other than basic or applied research to be performed solely by a university or college where the contract amount will be $500,000 or less) unless all the requirements for data are believed to be known at the time of contracting and specified in the contract. See FAR 27.406(b). This clause may also be used in other contracts when considered appropriate. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="STARS"/>
         <p outputclass="List1">(s) Contracting officers shall incorporate the solicitation provision at FAR 52.227-23, Rights to Proposal Data (Technical), in all requests for proposals. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(t) Contracting officers shall include the solicitation provision at 952.227-84 in all solicitations involving research, developmental, or demonstration work. 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
