<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_4402_2_T48_50326412718">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.4402-2</ph> General requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The following shall apply to the purchasing systems of management and operating contractors: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The objective of a management and operating contractor's purchasing system is to deliver to its customers on a timely basis those best value products and services necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Government's contract. To achieve this objective, contractors are expected to use their experience, expertise and initiative consistent with this subpart. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The purchasing systems and methods used by management and operating contractors shall be well-defined, consistently applied, and shall follow purchasing practices appropriate for the requirement and dollar value of the purchase. It is anticipated that purchasing practices and procedures will vary among contractors and according to the type and kinds of purchases to be made. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contractor purchases are not Federal procurements, and are not directly subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations in 48 CFR. Nonetheless, certain Federal laws, Executive Orders, and regulations may affect contractor purchasing, as required by statute, regulation, or contract terms and conditions. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Contractor purchasing systems shall identify and apply the best in commercial purchasing practices and procedures (although nothing precludes the adoption of Federal procurement practices and procedures) to achieve system objectives. Where specific requirements do not otherwise apply, the contractor purchasing system shall provide for appropriate measures to ensure the -  
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Acquisition of quality products and services at fair and reasonable prices; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Use of capable and reliable subcontractors who either - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Have track records of successful past performance, or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Can demonstrate a current superior ability to perform; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Minimization of acquisition lead-time and administrative costs of purchasing; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Use of effective competitive techniques; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Reduction of performance risks associated with subcontractors, and facilitation of quality relationships which can include techniques such as partnering agreements, ombudsmen, and alternative disputes procedures; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Use of self-assessment and benchmarking techniques to support continuous improvement in purchasing; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Maintenance of the highest professional and ethical standards; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(8) Maintenance of file documentation appropriate to the value of the purchase and which is adequate to establish the propriety of the transaction and the price paid; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(9) Maximization of opportunities for small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and woman-owned small business concerns to participate in contract performance. 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
