<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_2303_2_70_T48_50326411115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.2303-2</ph>-70 General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Department of Energy regulates the nuclear safety of its major facilities under its own statutory authority derived from the Atomic Energy Act and other legislation. The Department also regulates, under certain specific conditions, the use by its contractors of radioactive materials and ionizing radiation producing machines. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The inclusion of environmental, safety and health clauses in DOE contracts shall be made by the contracting officer in accordance with this subpart and in consultation with appropriate environmental, safety and health program management personnel. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			For DOE management and operating contracts and other contracts designated by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee, the clause entitled “970.5215-3 Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives - Facility Management Contracts” implements the requirements of section 234C of the Atomic Energy Act for the use of a contract clause that provides for an appropriate reduction in the fee or amount paid to the contractor under the contract in the event of a violation by the contractor or any contractor employee of any Departmental regulation relating to the enforcement of worker safety and health concerns. The clause, in part, provides for reductions in the amount of fee, profit, or share of cost savings that is otherwise earned by the contractor for performance failures relating to worker safety and health violations under the Department's regulations. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(2)
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Section 234C of the Atomic Energy Act states that DOE shall either pursue civil penalties (implemented at 10 CFR part 851) for a violation under section 234C of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2282c) or a contract fee reduction, but not both. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The contracting officer must coordinate with the Office of Price Anderson Enforcement within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Safety and Security (or with any designated successor office) before pursuing contract fee reduction in the event of a violation by the contractor or any contractor employee of any Departmental regulation relating to the enforcement of worker safety and health concerns.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
