<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_1100_1_T48_5032641612">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.1100-1</ph> Performance-based contracting.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) It is the policy of the Department of Energy (DOE) to use, to the maximum extent practicable, performance-based contracting methods in its management and operating contracts. The Office of Federal Procurement Policy's Seven Steps to Performance-Based Acquisition located at Web site <i>http://www.acquisition.gov/comp/seven_steps/home.html</i> provides guidance concerning the development and use of performance-based contracting concepts and methodologies that may be generally applied to management and operating contracts. Performance-based contracts: Describe performance requirements in terms of results rather than methods of accomplishing the work; use measurable (i.e., terms of quality, timeliness, quantity) performance standards and objectives and quality assurance surveillance plans; provide performance incentives (positive or negative) where appropriate; and specify procedures for award or incentive fee reduction when work activities are not performed or do not meet contract requirements.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The use of performance-based statements of work, where feasible, is the preferred method for establishing work requirements. Such statements of work and other documents used to establish work requirements (such as work authorization directives) should describe performance requirements and expectations in terms of outcome, results, or final work products, as opposed to methods, processes, or design. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Contract performance requirements and expectations should be consistent with the Department's strategic planning goals and objectives, as made applicable to the site or facility through Departmental programmatic and financial planning processes. Measurable performance criteria, objective measures, and where appropriate, performance incentives, shall be structured to correspond to the performance requirements established in the statement of work and other documents used to establish work requirements. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Quality assurance surveillance plans shall be developed to facilitate the assessment of contractor performance and ensure the appropriateness of any award or incentive fee payment. Such plans shall be tailored to the contract performance objectives, criteria, and measures, and shall, to the maximum extent practicable, focus on the level of performance required by the performance objectives rather than the methodology used by the contractor to achieve that level of performance. 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
