<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_5232_4_T48_503264131147">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.5232-4</ph> Obligation of funds.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 970.3270(a)(3), insert the following clause: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Obligation of Funds (DEC 2000) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Obligation of funds.</i> The amount presently obligated by the Government with respect to this contract is __ dollars ($__). Such amount may be increased unilaterally by DOE by written notice to the Contractor and may be increased or decreased by written agreement of the parties (whether or not by formal modification of this contract). Estimated collections from others for work and services to be performed under this contract are not included in the amount presently obligated. Such collections, to the extent actually received by the Contractor, shall be processed and accounted for in accordance with applicable requirements imposed by the Contracting Officer pursuant to the Laws, regulations, and DOE directives clause of this contract. Nothing in this paragraph is to be construed as authorizing the Contractor to exceed limitations stated in financial plans established by DOE and furnished to the Contractor from time to time under this contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Limitation on payment by the Government.</i> Except as otherwise provided in this contract and except for costs which may be incurred by the Contractor pursuant to the Termination clause of this contract or costs of claims allowable under the contract occurring after completion or termination and not released by the Contractor at the time of financial settlement of the contract in accordance with the clause entitled “Payments and Advances,” payment by the Government under this contract on account of allowable costs shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the amount obligated with respect to this contract, less the Contractor's fee and any negotiated fixed amount. Unless expressly negated in this contract, payment on account of those costs excepted in the preceding sentence which are in excess of the amount obligated with respect to this contract shall be subject to the availability of -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Collections accruing to the Contractor in connection with the work under this contract and processed and accounted for in accordance with applicable requirements imposed by the Contracting Officer pursuant to the Laws, regulations, and DOE directives clause of this contract; and 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Other funds which DOE may legally use for such purpose, provided DOE will use its best efforts to obtain the appropriation of funds for this purpose if not otherwise available. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Notices - Contractor excused from further performance.</i> The Contractor shall notify DOE in writing whenever the unexpended balance of available funds (including collections available under paragraph (a) of this clause), plus the Contractor's best estimate of collections to be received and available during the __ day period hereinafter specified, is in the Contractor's best judgment sufficient to continue contract operations at the programmed rate for only __ days and to cover the Contractor's unpaid fee and any negotiated fixed amounts, and outstanding encumbrances and liabilities on account of costs allowable under the contract at the end of such period. Whenever the unexpended balance of available funds (including collections available under paragraph (a) of this clause), less the amount of the Contractor's fee then earned but not paid and any negotiated fixed amounts, is in the Contractor's best judgment sufficient only to liquidate outstanding encumbrances and liabilities on account of costs allowable under this contract, the Contractor shall immediately notify DOE and shall make no further encumbrances or expenditures (except to liquidate existing encumbrances and liabilities), and, unless the parties otherwise agree, the Contractor shall be excused from further performance (except such performance as may become necessary in connection with termination by the Government) and the performance of all work hereunder will be deemed to have been terminated for the convenience of the Government in accordance with the provisions of the Termination clause of this contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Financial plans; cost and encumbrance limitations.</i> In addition to the limitations provided for elsewhere in this contract, DOE may, through financial plans, such as Approved Funding Programs, or other directives issued to the Contractor, establish controls on the costs to be incurred and encumbrances to be made in the performance of the contract work. Such plans and directives may be amended or supplemented from time to time by DOE. The Contractor agrees -  
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) To comply with the specific limitations (ceilings) on costs and encumbrances set forth in such plans and directives; 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) To comply with other requirements of such plans and directives; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) To notify DOE promptly, in writing, whenever it has reason to believe that any limitation on costs and encumbrances will be exceeded or substantially underrun. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Government's right to terminate not affected.</i> The giving of any notice under this clause shall not be construed to waive or impair any right of the Government to terminate the contract under the provisions of the Termination clause of this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate I</i> (DEC 2000). As prescribed in 970.3270(a)(3), paragraph (d) of the clause may be omitted in contracts which, expressly or otherwise, provide a contractual basis for equivalent controls in a separate clause.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
