<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_226_70_T48_50325402140">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.226-70</ph> Subcontracting goals under section 3021(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 926.7007(a), insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Subcontracting Goals Under Section 3021(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-486) (JUN 1996)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definition.</i> Energy Policy Act target groups, as used in this provision means - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) An institution of higher education that meets the criteria of 34 CFR 600.4(a) and has a student enrollment that consists of at least 20 percent - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Hispanic Americans, i.e., students whose origins are in Mexico, Puerto Rico, Cuba, or Central or South America, or any combination thereof, or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Native Americans, i.e., American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, and Native Hawaiians, or any combination thereof;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Institutions of higher learning determined by the Secretary of Education to be Historically Black Colleges and Universities pursuant to 34 CFR 608.2; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Small business concerns, as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632), that are owned and controlled by individuals who are both socially and economically disadvantaged within the meaning of section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) or by a woman or women.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Section 3021 of the Energy Policy Act (Pub. L. 102-486) establishes a goal of award of 10 percent of the contract dollar value for prime and subcontract Energy Policy Act awards to Energy Policy Act target groups.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Offeror, if other than one of the three groups specified in paragraph (a) of this clause, shall submit, as part of its business management proposal or, if this solicitation requires the submission of a Small Business Subcontracting Plan, then as part of that plan, unless otherwise stated in the proposal preparation instructions, individual subcontracting goals for each of the three Energy Policy Act target groups. Individual goals shall be expressed in terms of a percentage of the Offeror's proposed contract dollar value. In addition, the Offeror shall provide a description of the nature of the effort to be performed by each of the three groups, and, if possible, the identity of the contemplated subcontractor(s).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Unless otherwise stated, such goals shall be considered in the evaluation of the Business Management Proposal as discussed in Section M of this solicitation or, if applicable, as part of the evaluation of the Small Business Subcontracting Plan.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
