<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_1504_1_2_T48_5032641714">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.1504-1</ph>-2 Fee policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) DOE management and operating contractors may be paid a fee in accordance with the requirements of this subsection. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) There are three basic principles underlying the Department's fee policy: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The amount of available fee should reflect the financial risk assumed by the contractor. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) It is the policy of the Department, when work elements cannot be fixed price, incentive fees (including award fees) tied to objective measures should be used to the maximum extent appropriate. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) When work elements cannot be fixed price and award fees are employed, they should be tied to either objective or subjective measures. Each measure should, to the maximum extent appropriate, be directly tied to a specific portion of the fee pool. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Fee objectives and amounts are to be determined for each contract. Standard fees or across-the-board fee agreements will not be used or made. Due to the nature of funding management and operating contracts, it is anticipated that fee shall be established in accordance with the annual funding cycle; however, with the prior approval of the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee, a longer period may be used where necessary to incentivize performance objectives that span funding cycles or to optimize cost reduction efforts. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Annual fee amounts shall be established in accordance with this subsection. Annual amounts shall not exceed maximum amounts derived from the appropriate fee schedule (and Classification Factor, if applicable) unless approved in advance by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee. In no event shall any fee exceed statutory limits imposed by 41 U.S.C. 254(b). 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(e)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Contracting Officers shall include negative fee incentives in contracts when appropriate. A negative fee incentive is one in which the contractor will not be paid the full target fee amount when the actual performance level falls below the target level established in the contract. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Negative fee incentives may only be used when -  
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) A target level of performance can be established, which the contractor can reasonably be expected to reach; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The value of the negative incentive is commensurate with the lower level of performance and any additional administrative costs; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Factors likely to prevent attainment of the target level of performance are clearly within the control of the contractor; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The contract indicates clearly a level below which performance is not acceptable. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) Prior to the issuance of a competitive solicitation or the initiation of negotiations for an extension of an existing contract, the HCA shall coordinate the maximum available fee, as allowed by 970.1504-1-1, and the fee amount targeted for negotiation, if less, with the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee. Solicitations shall identify maximum available fee under the contract and may invite offerors to propose fee less than the maximum available. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) When a contract subject to this subsection requires a contractor to use its own facilities or equipment, or other resources to make its own cost investment for contract performance, (e.g., when there is no letter-of-credit financing) consideration may be given, subject to approval by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee, to increasing the total available fee amount above that otherwise provided by this subsection. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) Multiple fee arrangements should be used in accordance with 970.1504-1-4. 
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(i)(1) In addition to other performance requirements specified in the contract, DOE management and operating contractors and other contractors designated by the Senior Procurement Executive, or designee, are subject to performance requirements relating to: environment, safety, and health (ES&amp;H), including worker safety and health (WS&amp;H); and safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. Performance requirements relating to ES&amp;H will be set forth in the contract's ES&amp;H terms and conditions, including a DOE approved Integrated Safety Management System (ISMS), or similar document. As applicable, performance requirements relating to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information will be set forth in the clauses of the contract entitled “Security” and “Laws, Regulations, and DOE Directives,” as well as in other terms and conditions that prescribe requirements for the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(2) If the contractor does not meet the performance requirements of the contract relating to ES&amp;H or to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information, otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings may be unilaterally reduced by the contracting officer in accordance with the clause entitled “Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives - Facility Management Contracts.” 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(3) The clause entitled “Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives - Facility Management Contracts,” provides for reductions of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings under the contract depending upon the severity of the contractor's performance failure relating to ES&amp;H requirements and, if applicable, relating to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. When reviewing performance failures that would otherwise warrant a potential reduction of earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings, the contracting officer must consider mitigating factors that may warrant a reduction below the applicable range specified in the clause. Some of the mitigating factors that must be considered are included in the clause.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(4) The contracting officer must obtain the concurrence of the cognizant Program Secretarial Officer 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(i) Prior to effecting any reduction of fee or profit in accordance with the terms and conditions of the clause entitled, “Conditional Payment of Fee, Profit, and Other Incentives - Facility Management Contracts;” and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(ii) For determinations that no reduction of fee or profit is warranted for a particular performance failure(s) that would otherwise be subject to a reduction.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
