<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_904_7002_T48_503185513">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">904.7002</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contract</i> means the prime contract and the subcontract at any tier.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contracting officer</i> means the DOE contracting officer.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contractor</i> means the contractor and the subcontractor at any tier.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Facility clearance</i> means an administrative determination that a facility is eligible to access, produce, use, or store classified information, or special nuclear material. 
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Foreign interest</i> means any of the following - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Foreign government or foreign government agency or instrumentality thereof;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) Any form of business enterprise organized under the laws of any country other than the United States or its possessions;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(3) Any form of business enterprise organized or incorporated under the laws of the U.S., or a State or other jurisdiction within the U.S. which is owned, controlled, or influenced by a foreign government, agency, firm, corporation, or person; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(4) Any person who is not a U.S. citizen.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Foreign ownership, control, or influence</i> means the situation where the degree of ownership, control, or influence over an offeror(s) or a contractor by a foreign interest is such that a reasonable basis exists for concluding that compromise of classified information or special nuclear material may possibly result.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Special nuclear material</i> means special nuclear material as defined in 10 CFR 710.5(a).
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
