<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_1504_1_8_T48_50326417110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.1504-1</ph>-8 Special equipment purchases.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Special equipment is sometimes procured in conjunction with management and operating contracts. When a contractor procures special equipment, the DOE negotiating official shall determine separate fees for the equipment which shall not exceed the maximum fee allowable as established using the schedule in 915.404-4-71-5(h). 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) In determining appropriate fees, factors such as complexity of equipment, ratio of procurement transactions to volume of equipment to be purchased and completeness of services should be considered. Where possible, the reasonableness of the fees should be checked by their relationship to actual costs of comparable procurement services. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) For purposes of this subsection, special equipment is equipment for which the purchase price is of such a magnitude compared to the cost of installation as to distort the amount of technical direction and management effort required of the contractor. Special equipment is of a nature that requires less management attention. When a contractor procures special equipment, the DOE negotiating official shall determine separate fees for the equipment using the schedule in 915.404-4-71-5(h). The determination of specific items of equipment in this category requires application of judgment and careful study of the circumstances involved in each project. This category of equipment would generally include: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Major items of prefabricated process or research equipment; and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Major items of preassembled equipment such as packaged boilers, generators, machine tools, and large electrical equipment. In some cases, it would also include special apparatus or devices such as reactor vessels and reactor charging machines. 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
