<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1652_243_70_T48_60215241118">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1652.243-70</ph> Changes - Negotiated benefits contracts.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1643_205_70_T48_6021419111"
                  href="Section_1643_205_70_T48_6021419111.dita#Section_1643_205_70_T48_6021419111">1643.205-70</xref>, the following clause shall be inserted in all FEHBP contracts. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Changes - Negotiated Benefits Contracts (JAN 1998) 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer may at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract in any one or more of the following: 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Description of services to be performed. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Time of performance (i.e., hours of the day, days of the week, etc.). 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Place of performance of the services. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for, performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether or not changed by the order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price, the delivery schedule, or both, and shall modify the contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Carrier must assert its right to an adjustment under this clause within 30 days from the date of receipt of the written order. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the Carrier from proceeding with the contract as changed.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
