<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1652_216_70_T48_6021524119">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1652.216-70</ph> Accounting and price adjustment.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1616_7001_T48_6021111211"
                  href="Section_1616_7001_T48_6021111211.dita#Section_1616_7001_T48_6021111211">1616.7001</xref>, the following clause shall be inserted in all FEHBP contracts based on a combination of cost and price analysis (community rated).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Accounting and Price Adjustment (JAN 2003)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Annual Accounting Statement.</i> The Carrier, not later than 90 days after the end of each contract period, shall furnish to OPM for that contract period an accounting of its operations under the contract. The accounting shall be in the form prescribed by OPM.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Adjustment.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			This contract is community rated as defined in FEHBAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1602_170_2_T48_60293113"
                  href="Section_1602_170_2_T48_60293113.dita#Section_1602_170_2_T48_60293113">1602.170-2</xref>.</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Effective January 1, 2013 all community rated plans must develop the FEHBP's rates using their State-filed rating methodology or, if not required to file with the State, their standard written and established rating methodology. A carrier who mandated by the State to use traditional community rating will be subject to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this clause. All other carriers will be subject to paragraph (b)(2)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The subscription rates agreed to in this contract shall meet the FEHB-specific MLR threshold as defined in FEHBAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1602_170_14_T48_602931115"
                  href="Section_1602_170_14_T48_602931115.dita#Section_1602_170_14_T48_602931115">1602.170-14</xref>. The ratio of a plan's incurred claims, including the carrier's expenditures for activities that improve health care quality, to total premium revenue shall not be lower than the FEHB-specific MLR threshold published annually by OPM in its rate instructions.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The subscription rates agreed to in this contract shall be equivalent to the subscription rates given to the carrier's similarly sized subscriber group (SSSG) as defined in FEHBAR 1602.170-13. The subscription rates shall be determined according to the carrier's established policy, which must be applied consistently to the FEHBP and to the carrier's SSSG. If the SSSG receives a rate lower than that determined according to the carrier's established policy, it is considered a discount. The FEHBP must receive a discount equal to or greater than the carrier's SSSG discount.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) If subject to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this clause, then:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) If, at the time of the rate reconciliation, the subscription rates are found to be lower than the equivalent rates for the SSSG, the carrier may include an adjustment to the Federal group's rates for the next contract period, except as noted in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) If, at the time of the rate reconciliation, the subscription rates are found to be higher than the equivalent rates for the SSSG, the carrier shall reimburse the Fund, for example, by reducing the FEHB rates for the next contract term to reflect the difference between the estimated rates and the rates which are derived using the methodology of the SSSG, except as noted in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Carriers may provide additional guaranteed discounts to the FEHBP that are not given to the SSSG. Any such guaranteed discounts must be clearly identified as guaranteed discounts. After the beginning of the contract year for which the rates are set, these guaranteed FEHBP discounts may not be adjusted.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) If rates are determined by comparison with the FEHB-specific MLR threshold, then if the MLR for the carrier's FEHB plan is found to be lower than the published FEHB-specific MLR threshold, the carrier must pay a subsidization penalty equal to the difference into a subsidization penalty account.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) The following apply to community rated plans, regardless of the rating methodology:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) No upward adjustment in the rate established for this contract will be allowed or considered by the Government or will be made by the Carrier in this or in any other contract period on the basis of actual costs incurred, actual benefits provided, or actual size or composition of the FEHBP group during this contract period.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) For contract years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, in the event this contract is not renewed, the final rate reconciliation will be performed. The carrier must promptly pay any amount owed to OPM. Any amount recoverable by the carrier is limited to the amount in the contingency reserve for the terminating plan as of December 31 of the terminating year.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Carriers may not impose surcharges (loadings not defined based on an established rating method) on the FEHBP subscription rates or use surcharges in the rate reconciliation process in any circumstance.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(6) For contract years beginning on or after January 1, 2009, in the event this contract is not renewed, the final rate reconciliation will be performed. The carrier must promptly pay any amount owed to OPM. Any amount recoverable by the carrier is limited to the amount in the contingency reserve for the terminating plan as of December 31 of the terminating year.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) Carriers may provide additional guaranteed discounts to the FEHBP. Any such guaranteed discounts must be clearly identified as guaranteed discounts. After the beginning of the contract year for which the rates are set, these guaranteed FEHBP discounts may not be adjusted.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(8) Carriers may not impose surcharges (loadings not defined based on an established rating method) on the FEHBP subscription rates or use surcharges in the rate reconciliation process. If the carrier is subject to the SSSG rules and imposes a surcharge on the SSSG, the carrier cannot impose the surcharge on FEHB.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
