<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1615_406_2_T48_6021110414">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1615.406-2</ph> Certificates of accurate cost or pricing data for community rated carriers.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contracting officer will require a carrier with a contract meeting the requirements in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411"
                  href="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411.dita#Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411">1615.402</xref>(c)(2) or (3) to execute one or more of the Certificates contained in this section. A carrier with a contract meeting the requirements in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411"
                  href="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411.dita#Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411">1615.402</xref>(c)(2) will complete the appropriate Certificate(s) and keep such on file at the carrier's place of business in accordance with <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1652_204_70_T48_6021524112"
                  href="Section_1652_204_70_T48_6021524112.dita#Section_1652_204_70_T48_6021524112">1652.204-70</xref>. A carrier with a contract meeting the requirements in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411"
                  href="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411.dita#Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411">1615.402</xref>(c)(3) will complete and submit the appropriate certificate(s) to OPM.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) A carrier using the SSSG methodology described in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411"
                  href="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411.dita#Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411">1615.402</xref>(c)(3)(i) will submit the “Certificate of Accurate Cost or Pricing Data for Community-Rated Carriers (SSSG methodology)” along with its rate reconciliation during the first quarter of the applicable contract year. A carrier using the MLR methodology described in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411"
                  href="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411.dita#Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411">1615.402</xref>(c)(3)(ii) will submit two forms. The “Certificate of Accurate Cost or Pricing Data for Community-Rated Carriers (MLR methodology)” will be submitted along with the rate reconciliation during the first quarter of the applicable contract year. The “Certificate of Accurate MLR Calculation” will be submitted when the carrier submits its FEHB-specific MLR calculation to OPM.
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(Beginning of first certificate)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">This is to certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief: (1) The cost or pricing data submitted (or, if not submitted, maintained and identified by the carrier as supporting documentation) to the Contracting officer or the Contracting officer's representative or designee, in support of the __* FEHB Program rates were developed in accordance with the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 16 and the FEHB Program contract and are accurate, complete, and current as of the date this certificate is executed; and (2) the methodology used to determine the FEHB Program rates is consistent with the methodology used to determine the rates for the carrier's Similarly Sized Subscriber Group.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">* Insert the year for which the rates apply.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Firm:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Name:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Signature:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Date of Execution:</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of first certificate)
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(Beginning of second certificate)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Certificate of Accurate Cost or Pricing Data for Community-Rated Carriers (MLR methodology)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">This is to certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief: (1) The cost or pricing data submitted (or, if not submitted, maintained and identified by the carrier as supporting documentation) to the Contracting officer or the Contracting officer's representative or designee, in support of the ___*FEHB Program rates were developed in accordance with the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 16 and the FEHB Program contract and are accurate, complete, and current as of the date this certificate is executed;
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">*Insert the year for which the rates apply.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Firm:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Name:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Signature:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Date of Execution:</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of second certificate)
</p>
         <p xtrc="HD3">(Beginning of third certificate)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Certificate of Accurate MLR Calculation
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">This is to certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief: the determination of the carrier's FEHB-specific medical loss ratio for * is accurate, complete, and consistent with the methodology as stated in § <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411"
                  href="Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411.dita#Section_1615_402_T48_6021110411">1615.402</xref>(c)(3)(ii).</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">*Insert the year for which the MLR calculation applies.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Firm:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Name:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Signature:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">Date of Execution:</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of certificate)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
