<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2009_570_2_T48_606327314">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2009.570-2</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Affiliates</i> means business concerns which are affiliates of each other when either directly or indirectly one concern or individual controls or has the power to control another, or when a third party controls or has the power to control both.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contract</i> means any contractual agreement or other arrangement with the NRC except as provided in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2009_570_1_T48_606327313"
                  href="Section_2009_570_1_T48_606327313.dita#Section_2009_570_1_T48_606327313">2009.570-1</xref>(c).</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Contractor</i> means any person, firm, unincorporated association, joint venture, co-sponsor, partnership, corporation, affiliates thereof, or their successors in interest, including their chief executives, directors, key personnel (identified in the contract), proposed consultants or subcontractors, which are a party to a contract with the NRC.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Evaluation activities</i> means any effort involving the appraisal of a technology, process, product, or policy.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Offeror</i> or <i>prospective contractor</i> means any person, firm, unincorporated association, joint venture, co-sponsor, partnership, corporation, or their affiliates or successors in interest, including their chief executives, directors, key personnel, proposed consultants, or subcontractors, submitting a bid or proposal, solicited or unsolicited, to the NRC to obtain a contract.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Organizational conflicts of interest</i> means that a relationship exists whereby a contractor or prospective contractor has present or planned interests related to the work to be performed under an NRC contract which:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			May diminish its capacity to give impartial, technically sound, objective assistance and advice, or may otherwise result in a biased work product; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) May result in its being given an unfair competitive advantage.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Potential conflict of interest</i> means that a factual situation exists that suggests that an actual conflict of interest may arise from award of a proposed contract. The term <i>potential conflict of interest</i> is used to signify those situations that - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Merit investigation before contract award to ascertain whether award would give rise to an actual conflict; or
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(2) Must be reported to the contracting officer for investigation if they arise during contract performance.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Research</i> means any scientific or technical work involving theoretical analysis, exploration, or experimentation.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Subcontractor</i> means any subcontractor of any tier who performs work under a contract with the NRC except subcontracts for supplies and subcontracts in amounts not exceeding $10,000.
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Technical consulting and management support services</i> means internal assistance to a component of the NRC in the formulation or administration of its programs, projects, or policies which normally require that the contractor be given access to proprietary information or to information that has not been made available to the public. These services typically include assistance in the preparation of program plans, preliminary designs, specifications, or statements of work.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
