<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_204_70_T48_6063825112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.204-70</ph> Security.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2004_404_T48_606315011"
                  href="Section_2004_404_T48_606315011.dita#Section_2004_404_T48_606315011">2004.404</xref>(a), the contracting officer shall insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts during which the contractor may have access to, or contact with classified information, including National Security information, restricted data, formerly restricted data, and other classified data:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Security (OCT 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Security/Classification Requirements Form. The attached NRC Form 187 (See List of Attachments) furnishes the basis for providing security and classification requirements to prime contractors, subcontractors, or others (e.g., bidders) who have or may have an NRC contractual relationship that requires access to classified information or matter, access on a continuing basis (in excess of 90 or more days) to NRC Headquarters controlled buildings, or otherwise requires NRC photo identification or card-key badges.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) It is the contractor's duty to safeguard National Security Information, Restricted Data, and Formerly Restricted Data. The contractor shall, in accordance with the Commission's security regulations and requirements, be responsible for safeguarding National Security Information, Restricted Data, and Formerly Restricted Data, and for protecting against sabotage, espionage, loss, and theft, the classified documents and material in the contractor's possession in connection with the performance of work under this contract. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this contract, the contractor shall transmit to the Commission any classified matter in the possession of the contractor or any person under the contractor's control in connection with performance of this contract upon completion or termination of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contractor shall complete a certificate of possession to be furnished to the Commission specifying the classified matter to be retained if the retention is:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Required after the completion or termination of the contract; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Approved by the contracting officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The certification must identify the items and types or categories of matter retained, the conditions governing the retention of the matter and their period of retention, if known. If the retention is approved by the contracting officer, the security provisions of the contract continue to be applicable to the matter retained.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) In connection with the performance of the work under this contract, the contractor may be furnished, or may develop or acquire, proprietary data (trade secrets) or confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information, including Commission plans, policies, reports, financial plans, internal data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579), or other information which has not been released to the public or has been determined by the Commission to be otherwise exempt from disclosure to the public. The contractor agrees to hold the information in confidence and not to directly or indirectly duplicate, disseminate, or disclose the information, in whole or in part, to any other person or organization except as necessary to perform the work under this contract. The contractor agrees to return the information to the Commission or otherwise dispose of it at the direction of the contracting officer. Failure to comply with this clause is grounds for termination of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Regulations.</i> The contractor agrees to conform to all security regulations and requirements of the Commission which are subject to change as directed by the NRC Division of Facilities and Security and the Contracting Officer. These changes will be under the authority of the FAR Changes clause referenced in Section I of this document.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Definition of national security information.</i> As used in this clause, the term <i>national security information</i> means information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 12958 or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Definition of restricted data.</i> As used in this clause, the term Restricted Data means all data concerning design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; the production of special nuclear material; or the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but does not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category under to Section 142 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Definition of formerly restricted data.</i> As used in this clause the term Formerly Restricted Data means all data removed from the Restricted Data category under Section 142-d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Security clearance personnel.</i> The contractor may not permit any individual to have access to Restricted Data, Formerly Restricted Data, or other classified information, except in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and the Commission's regulations or requirements applicable to the particular type or category of classified information to which access is required. The contractor shall also execute a Standard Form 312, Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement, when access to classified information is required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>Criminal liabilities.</i> Disclosure of National Security Information, Restricted Data, and Formerly Restricted Data relating to the work or services ordered hereunder to any person not entitled to receive it, or failure to safeguard any Restricted Data, Formerly Restricted Data, or any other classified matter that may come to the contractor or any person under the contractor's control in connection with work under this contract, may subject the contractor, its agents, employees, or subcontractors to criminal liability under the laws of the United States. (See the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2011 <i>et seq.;</i> 18 U.S.C. 793 and 794; and Executive Order 12958.)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(j) <i>Subcontracts and purchase orders.</i> Except as otherwise authorized, in writing, by the contracting officer, the contractor shall insert provisions similar to the foregoing in all subcontracts and purchase orders under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(k) In performing contract work, the contractor shall classify all documents, material, and equipment originated or generated by the contractor in accordance with guidance issued by the Commission. Every subcontract and purchase order issued under the contract that involves originating or generating classified documents, material, and equipment must provide that the subcontractor or supplier assign the proper classification to all documents, material, and equipment in accordance with guidance furnished by the contractor.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
