<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_211_71_T48_6063825118">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.211-71</ph> Technical progress report.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2011_104_70_T48_606328111"
                  href="Section_2011_104_70_T48_606328111.dita#Section_2011_104_70_T48_606328111">2011.104-70</xref>(b), the contracting officer shall insert the following clause in all solicitations and contracts except firm fixed price or indefinite delivery contracts to be awarded on a time-and-materials or labor-hour basis, or which provide for issuance of delivery orders for specific products/serviced line items. The contracting officer may alter this clause prior to issuance of the solicitation or during competition by solicitation amendment. Insignificant changes may also be made by the contracting officer on a case-by-case basis during negotiation without amending the solicitation.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Technical Progress Report (JAN 1993)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The contractor shall provide a monthly Technical Progress Report to the project officer and the contracting officer. The report is due within 15 calendar days after the end of the report period and must identify the title of the project, the contract number, appropriate financial tracking code specified by the NRC Project Officer, project manager and/or principal investigator, the contract period of performance, and the period covered by the report. Each report must include the following for each discrete task/task order:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) A listing of the efforts completed during the period, and milestones reached or, if missed, an explanation provided;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Any problems or delays encountered or anticipated and recommendations for resolution. If the recommended resolution involves a contract modification, e.g., change in work requirements, level of effort (cost) or schedule delay, the contractor shall submit a separate letter to the contracting officer identifying the required change and estimated cost impact;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) A summary of progress to date; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Plans for the next reporting period.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
