<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2035_71_T48_6063622012">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2035.71</ph> Broad agency announcements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Criteria for selecting contractors may include such factors as:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Unique and innovative methods, approaches, or concepts demonstrated by the proposal.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Overall scientific, technical, or economic merits of the proposal.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The offeror's capabilities, related experience, facilities, techniques, or unique combinations of these which are integral factors for achieving the proposal objectives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed principal investigator, team leader, or key personnel who are critical in achieving the proposal objectives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Potential contribution of the effort to NRC's mission.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Overall standing among similar proposals available for evaluation and/or evaluation against the known state-of-the-art technology.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Once a proposal is received, communication between the agency's scientific or engineering personnel and the principal investigator is permitted for clarification purposes only and must be coordinated through the Division of Contracts and Property Management.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) After evaluation of the proposals, the Designating Official shall submit a comprehensive evaluation report to the contracting officer which recommends the source(s) for contract award. The report must reflect the basis for the selection or nonselection of each proposal received.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
