<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_204_71_T48_6063825113">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.204-71</ph> Site access badge requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2004_404_T48_606315011"
                  href="Section_2004_404_T48_606315011.dita#Section_2004_404_T48_606315011">2004.404</xref>(b), the contracting officer shall insert the following clause in all solicitations and contracts under which the contractor will require access to Government facilities. The clause may be altered to reflect any special conditions to be applied to foreign nationals:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Site Access Badge Requirements (JAN 1993)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">During the life of this contract, the rights of ingress and egress for contractor personnel must be made available as required. In this regard, all contractor personnel whose duties under this contract require their presence on-site shall be clearly identifiable by a distinctive badge furnished by the Government. The Project Officer shall assist the contractor in obtaining the badges for contractor personnel. It is the sole responsibility of the contractor to ensure that each employee has proper identification at all times. All prescribed identification must be immediately delivered to the Security Office for cancellation or disposition upon the termination of employment of any contractor personnel. Contractor personnel shall have this identification in their possession during on-site performance under this contract. It is the contractor's duty to assure that contractor personnel enter only those work areas necessary for performance of contract work and to assure the safeguarding of any Government records or data that contractor personnel may come into contact with.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
