<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_215_77_T48_60638251122">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.215-77</ph> Travel approvals and reimbursement.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111"
                  href="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111.dita#Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111">2015.209-70</xref>(d), the contracting officer shall insert the following clause in cost reimbursement solicitations and contracts which require travel but do not set a specific ceiling amount on that travel. Requests for foreign travel must be submitted to the NRC 30 days in advance of the travel date.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Travel Approvals and Reimbursement (OCT 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) All foreign travel must be approved in advance by the NRC on NRC Form 445, Request for Approval of Official Foreign Travel, and must be in compliance with FAR 52.247-63 Preference for U.S. Flag Air Carriers. The contractor shall submit NRC Form 445 to the NRC no later than 30 days before beginning travel.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contractor must receive written approval from the NRC Project Officer before taking travel that was unanticipated in the Schedule (i.e., travel not contemplated in the Statement of Work, or changes to specific travel identified in the Statement of Work).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor will be reimbursed only for travel costs incurred that are directly related to this contract and are allowable subject to the limitations prescribed in FAR 31.205-46.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) It is the responsibility of the contractor to notify the contracting officer in accordance with the Limitations of Cost clause of this contract when, at any time, the contractor learns that travel expenses will cause the contractor to exceed the estimated costs specified in the Schedule.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Reasonable travel costs for research and related activities performed at State and nonprofit institutions, in accordance with Section 12 of Pub. L. 100-679, must be charged in accordance with the contractor's institutional policy to the degree that the limitations of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance are not exceeded. Applicable guidance documents include OMB Circular A-87, Cost Principles for State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-122, Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations; and OMB Circular A-21, Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
