<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_214_72_T48_60638251112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.214-72</ph> Bid evaluation.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2014_201_670_T48_6063310112"
                  href="Section_2014_201_670_T48_6063310112.dita#Section_2014_201_670_T48_6063310112">2014.201-670</xref>(c), the contracting officer shall insert the following provision in applicable invitations for bids (paragraph “(f)” of this provision is optional):
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Bid Evaluation (JAN 1993)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Award will be made to that responsive, responsible bidder within the meaning of FAR Subpart 9.1 whose total bid amount, as set forth by the bidder in Section B of this Invitation for Bid (IFB), constitutes the lowest overall evaluated final contract price to the Government based upon the requirements for the schedule. Bids will be evaluated for purposes of award by first ascertaining the sum of the total amount for each of the items specified in Section B of this solicitation. This will constitute the bidder's “Total Bid Amount.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Bidders shall insert a definite price or indicate “no charge” in the blank space provided for each item and/or sub-item listed in Section B. Unless expressly provided for in the bid, no additional charge will be allowed for work performed under the contract other than the unit prices stipulated for each item and/or sub-item.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Any bid which is materially unbalanced as to price for the separate items specified in Section B of this IFB may be rejected as nonresponsive. An unbalanced bid is defined as one which is based on prices which, in the opinion of the NRC, are significantly less than cost for some work and/or prices that may be significantly overstated for other work.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Separation charges, in any form, are not solicited. Bids containing charges for discontinuance, termination, failure to exercise an option, or for any other purpose will cause the bid to be rejected as nonresponsive.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) A preaward on-site survey of the bidder's facilities, equipment, etc., in accordance with FAR 9.105 and 9.106, may be made by representatives of the Commission for the purpose of determining whether the bidder is responsible within the meaning of FAR 9.1, and whether the bidder possesses qualifications that are conducive to the production of work that will meet the requirements, specifications, and provisions of this contract. If requested by the Commission, the prospective contractor may also be required to submit statements within * hours after receiving the request:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Concerning their ability to meet any of the minimum standards set forth in FAR 9.104,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Samples of work, and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Names and addresses of additional clients, Government agencies, and/or commercial firms which the bidder is now doing or had done business with.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, the award of any contract resulting from this solicitation will be made on an “all or none” basis. Thus, bids submitted on fewer than the items listed in Section B of this IFB, or on fewer than the estimated quantity, will cause the bid to be rejected as nonresponsive.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">*To be inserted into solicitation.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
