<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_215_75_T48_60638251120">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.215-75</ph> Proposal presentation and format.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111"
                  href="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111.dita#Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111">2015.209-70</xref>(b)(1), the contracting officer may insert the following provision in applicable negotiated procurements for cost type solicitations. This clause may be tailored to each procurement and solicitation evaluation criteria by the contracting officer to fit the circumstances of the procurement.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Proposal Presentation and Format (OCT 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Information submitted in response to this solicitation must be typed, printed, or reproduced on letter-size paper and each copy must be legible. All information provided, including all resumes, must be accurate, truthful, and complete to the best of the offeror's knowledge and belief. The Commission will rely upon all representations made by the offeror both in the evaluation process and for the performance of the work by the offeror selected for award. The Commission may require the offeror to substantiate the credentials, education, and employment history of its employees, subcontractor personnel, and consultants, through submission of copies of transcripts, diplomas, licenses, etc.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The offeror shall submit the following material which constitutes its offer, as defined by FAR 2.101, in two separate and distinct parts at the date and time specified in * of the solicitation for receipt of sealed offers.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Part 1 - Solicitation Package/Offer. Two (2) original signed copies of this solicitation package/offer. All applicable sections must be completed by the offeror.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Part 2 - Cost Proposal. One (1) original and * copies of the “Cost Proposal.”
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) The cost proposal shall be submitted separately from the Technical and Management Proposal or Oral Presentation and Supporting Documentation (as applicable).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The offeror's request for an exception to submitting cost or pricing data shall be made in accordance with FAR 52.215-20(a).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) If the contracting officer does not grant the offeror an exception from the requirement to submit cost or pricing data, the offeror's cost proposal shall conform with the requirements of FAR 52.215-20(b). Cost information shall include pertinent details sufficient to show the elements of cost upon which the total cost is predicted in accordance with the requirement of FAR 52.215-20 (b)(1).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) When the offeror's estimated cost for the proposed work exceeds $100,000 and the duration of the contract period exceeds six months, the offeror shall submit a Contractor Spending Plan (CSP) as part of its cost proposal. Guidance for completing the CSP is attached.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) For any subcontract discussed under the Technical and Management Proposal, or Oral Presentation Material, provide supporting documentation on the selection process, i.e., competitive vs. noncompetitive, and the cost evaluation.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) “Written Technical and Management Proposal” or “Oral Presentation and Supporting Documentation” (as applicable). One 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			original and * copies.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The written Technical and Management Proposal or Oral Presentation and Supporting Documentation may not contain any reference to cost. Resource information, such as data concerning labor hours and categories, materials, subcontracts, travel, computer time, etc., must be included so that the offeror's understanding of the scope of work may be evaluated.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The offeror shall submit in the written Technical and Management Proposal or Oral Presentation and Supporting Documentation full and complete information as set forth below to permit the Government to make a thorough evaluation and a sound determination that the proposed approach will have a reasonable likelihood of meeting the requirements and objectives of this procurement.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The written Technical Proposal or Oral Presentation and Supporting Documentation must be tailored to assure that all information reflects a one-to-one relationship to the evaluation criteria.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Statements which paraphrase the statement of work without communicating the specific approach proposed by the offeror, or statements to the effect that the offeror's understanding can or will comply with the statement of work may be construed as an indication of the offeror's lack of understanding of the statement of work and objectives.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Written Technical or Oral Presentation and Supporting Documentation Requirements - Instructions. 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-1">*
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">*To be incorporated into the solicitation.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate 1</i> (OCT 1999). As prescribed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111"
                  href="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111.dita#Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111">2015.209-70</xref>(b)(2), this Alternate 1 may be used for solicitations for negotiated task orders. Include the following paragraph (iv) in place of paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of the basic provision:
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b)(2)(iv) The offeror's cost proposal shall be based on the NRC's estimated level of effort. The NRC's estimated level of effort for this procurement is approximately * professional and * clerical staff-years for the duration of this contract. This information is advisory and is not to be considered as the sole basis for the development of the staffing plan. For the purposes of the Government estimate, 2000 hours constitute a staff year. The total estimated cost proposed by the offeror is used for evaluation purposes only. Any resultant contract, except a requirements contract, contains an overall cost ceiling whereby individual task orders may be issued. The cost and fee, if any, for each task order is individually negotiated and also contains a cost ceiling.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">
                                    <i>Alternate 2</i> (OCT 1999). As proposed at <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111"
                  href="Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111.dita#Section_2015_209_70_T48_6063311111">2015.209-70</xref>(b)(3), Alternate 2 may be used for solicitations for negotiated fixed price, labor hour, or time and materials contracts. Substitute the following paragraph (b)(2)(ii) for the paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of the basic provision, delete paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)-(iv) of the basic provision, and renumber the remaining paragraphs.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(ii) Submittal of information other than cost or pricing data shall be made in accordance with FAR 52.215-20 Alternate IV.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
