<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2052_235_70_T48_60638251132">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2052.235-70</ph> Publication of research results.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_2035_70_T48_6063622011"
                  href="Section_2035_70_T48_6063622011.dita#Section_2035_70_T48_6063622011">2035.70</xref>(a)(1), the contracting officer shall insert the following clause in applicable solicitations and contracts for research and development by private contractors and universities and for other technical services as appropriate.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Publication of Research Results (OCT 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The principal investigator(s)/contractor shall comply with the provisions of NRC Management Directive 3.8 (Vol. 3, Part 1) and NRC Handbook 3.8 (Parts I-IV) regarding publication in refereed scientific and engineering journals or dissemination to the public of any information, oral or written, concerning the work performed under this contract. Failure to comply with this clause shall be grounds for termination of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The principal investigator(s)/contractor may publish the results of this work in refereed scientific and engineering journals or in open literature and present papers at public or association meetings at interim stages of work, in addition to submitting to NRC the final reports and other deliverables required under this contract. However, such publication and papers shall focus on advances in science and technology and minimize conclusions and/or recommendations which may have regulatory implications.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The principal investigator(s) shall coordinate all such publications with, and transmit a copy of the proposed article or paper to, the NRC Contracting Officer or Project Officer, prior to publication. The NRC agrees to review and provide comments within thirty (30) days after receipt of a proposed publication. However, in those cases where the information to be published is 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			subject to Commission approval, (2) has not been ruled upon, or (3) disapproved by the Commission, the NRC reserves the right to disapprove or delay the publication. Further, if the NRC disagrees with the proposed publication for any reason, it reserves the right to require that any publication not identify the NRC's sponsorship of the work and that any associated publication costs shall be borne by the contractor.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
