<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_410_50_T48_70102650197">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.410-50</ph> Techniques for application.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) G&amp;A expenses of a segment incurred by another segment shall be removed from the incurring segment's G&amp;A expense pool. They shall be allocated to the segment for which the expenses were incurred on the basis of the beneficial or causal relationship between the expenses incurred and all benefiting or causing segments. If the expenses are incurred for two or more segments, they shall be allocated using an allocation base common to all such segments.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The G&amp;A expense pool may be combined with other expenses for allocation to final cost objectives provided that - 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The allocation base used for the combined pool is appropriate both for the allocation of the G&amp;A expense pool under this Standard and for the allocation of the other expenses; and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Provision is made to identify the components and total of the G&amp;A expense pool separately from the other expenses in the combined pool.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Expenses which are not G&amp;A expenses and are insignificant in amount may be included in the G&amp;A expense pool for allocation to final cost objectives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The cost input base used to allocate the G&amp;A expense pool shall include all significant elements of that cost input which represent the total activity of the business unit. The cost input base selected to represent the total activity of a business unit during a cost accounting period may be: Total cost input; value-added cost input; or single element cost input. The determination of which cost input base best represents the total activity of a business unit must be judged on the basis of the circumstances of each business unit.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) A total cost input base is generally acceptable as an appropriate measure of the total activity of a business unit.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Value-added cost input shall be used as an allocation base where inclusion of material and subcontract costs would significantly distort the allocation of the G&amp;A expense pool in relation to the benefits received, and where costs other than direct labor are significant measures of total activity. A value-added cost input base is total cost input less material and subcontract costs.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) A single element cost input base; e.g., direct labor hours or direct labor dollars, which represents the total activity of a business unit may be used to allocate the G&amp;A expense pool where it produces equitable results. A single element base may not produce equitable results where other measures of activity are also significant in relation to total activity. A single element base is inappropriate where it is an insignificant part of the total cost of some of the final cost objectives.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Where, prior to the effective date of this Standard, a business unit's disclosed or established cost accounting practice was to use a cost of sales or sales base, that business unit may use the transition method set out in appendix A hereof.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) Cost input shall include those expenses which by operation of this Standard are excluded from the G&amp;A expense pool and are not part of a combined pool of G&amp;A expenses and other expenses allocated using the same allocation base.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(g)
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Allocations of the home office expenses of:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Line management of particular segments or groups of segments,
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Residual expenses, and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Directly allocated expenses related to the management and administration of the receiving segment as a whole, shall be included in the receiving segment's G&amp;A expense pool.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any separate allocation of the expenses of home office centralized service functions, staff management of specific activities of segments, and central payments or accruals, which is received by a segment, shall be allocated to the segment cost objectives in proportion to the beneficial or causal relationship between the cost objectives and the expense if such allocation is significant in amount. Where a beneficial or causal relationship for the expense is not identifiable with segment cost objectives, the expense may be included in the G&amp;A expense pool.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) Where a segment performs home office functions and also performs as an operating segment having a responsibility for final cost objectives, the expense of the home office functions shall be segregated. These expenses shall be allocated to all benefiting or causing segments, including the segment performing the home office functions, pursuant to disclosed or established accounting practices for the allocation of home office expenses to segments.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) For purposes of allocating the G&amp;A expense pool, items produced or worked on for stock or product inventory shall be accounted for as final cost objectives in accordance with the following paragraphs:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Where items are produced or worked on for stock or product inventory in a given cost accounting period, the cost input to such items in that period shall be included only once in the computation of the G&amp;A expense allocation base and in the computation of the G&amp;A expense allocation rate for that period and shall not be included in the computation of the base or rate for any other cost accounting period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A portion of the G&amp;A expense pool shall be allocated to items produced or worked on for stock or product inventory in the cost accounting period or periods in which such items are produced at the rates determined for such periods except as provided in subparagraph (i)(3) of this subsection.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Where the contractor does not include G&amp;A expense in inventory as part of the cost of stock or product inventory items, the G&amp;A rate of the cost accounting period in which such items are issued to final cost objectives may be used to determine the G&amp;A expenses applicable to issues of stock or product inventory items.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(j) Where a particular final cost objective in relation to other final cost objectives receives significantly more or less benefit from G&amp;A expense than would be reflected by the allocation of such expenses using a base determined pursuant to paragraph (d) of this subsection, the business unit shall account for this particular final cost objective by a special allocation from the G&amp;A expense pool to the particular final cost objective commensurate with the benefits received. The amount of a special allocation to any such final cost objective shall be excluded from the G&amp;A expense pool required by 9904.410-40(a), and the particular final cost objective's cost input data shall be excluded from the base used to allocate this pool.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
