<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9901_304_T48_7010252014">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9901.304</ph> Membership.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The Board consists of five members, including the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (hereinafter referred to as the “Administrator”) who shall serve as Chairman, and four other members with experience in Government contract cost accounting who are to be appointed as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) A representative of the Department of Defense appointed by the Secretary of Defense.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) An officer or employee of the General Services Administration appointed by the Administrator of the General Services Administration or his/her designee.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) A representative of industry appointed from the private sector by the Administrator.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) An individual who is particularly knowledgeable about cost accounting problems and systems appointed from the private sector by the Administrator.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The term of office of each of the members of the Board, other than the Administrator, shall be four years, with the exception of the initial appointment of members. Of the initial appointments to the Board, two members shall hold appointment for a term of two years, one shall hold appointment for a term of three years, and one shall hold appointment for a term of four years.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The members from the Department of Defense and the General Services Administration shall not be permitted to continue to serve on the Board after ceasing to be an officer or employee of their respective appointing agency. A vacancy on the Board shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made. A member may be reappointed for a subsequent term(s). Any member appointed to fill an interim vacancy on the Board shall serve for the remainder of the term for which his or her predecessor was appointed.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) In the event of the absence or incapacity of the Administrator or during a vacancy in the office, the official of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, acting as Administrator, shall serve as the Chairman of the Board.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) In the event of the absence of any of the other Board members, a representative of that Board member may attend the Board meeting, but shall have no vote, and his or her attendance shall not be counted to establish a quorum.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
