<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9901_305_T48_7010252015">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9901.305</ph> Requirements for standards and interpretive rulings.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Prior to the promulgation of cost accounting standards and interpretations thereof, the Board shall:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Take into account, after consultation and discussion with the Comptroller General, professional accounting organizations, contractors, government agencies and other interested parties:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The probable costs of implementation, including inflationary effects, if any, compared to the probable benefits;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The advantages, disadvantages, and improvements anticipated in the pricing and administration of, and settlement of disputes concerning, contacts; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The scope of, and alternatives available to, the action proposed to be taken.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Prepare and publish a report in the Federal Register on issues reviewed under paragraph (a) of this section. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Publish an advance notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register in order to solicit comments on the report prepared pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, and provide all parties affected a period of not less than 60 days after such publication to submit their views and comments. During this 60-day period, consult with the Comptroller General and consider any recommendation the Comptroller General may make.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Publish a notice of such proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register and provide all parties affected a period of not less than 60 days after such publication to submit their views and comments.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Rules, regulations, cost accounting standards, and modifications thereof promulgated or amended by the Board, shall have the full force and effect of law and shall become effective within 120 days after publication in the Federal Register in final form, unless the Board determines a longer period is necessary. Implementation dates for contractors and subcontractors shall be determined by the Board, but in no event shall such dates be later than the beginning of the second fiscal year of affected contractors or subcontractors after the standard becomes effective. Rules, regulations, cost accounting standards, and modifications thereof promulgated or amended by the Board shall be accompanied by prefatory comments and by illustrations, if necessary.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The above functions exercised by the Board are excluded from the operations of sections 551, 553 through 559, and 701 through 706 of title 5, United States Code.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
