<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_406_60_T48_70102650158">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.406-60</ph> Illustrations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) A contractor allocates general management expenses on the basis of total cost input. In a proposal for a covered negotiated fixed-price contract, he estimates the allocable expenses based solely on the estimated amount of the general management expense pool and the amount of the total cost input base estimated to be incurred during the 8 months in which performance is scheduled to be commenced and completed. Such a proposal would be in violation of the requirements of this Standard that the calculation of the amounts of both the indirect cost pools and the allocation bases be based on the contractor's cost accounting period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) A contractor whose cost accounting period is the calendar year, installs a computer service center to begin operations on May 1. The operating expense related to the new service center is expected to be material in amount, will be accumulated in a separate indirect cost pool, and will be allocated to the benefiting cost objectives on the basis of measured usage. The total operating expenses of the computer service center for the 8-month part of the cost accounting period may be allocated to the benefiting cost objectives of that same 8-month period.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) A contractor changes his fiscal year from a calendar year to the 12-month period ending May 31. For financial reporting purposes, he has a 5-month transitional “fiscal year.” The same 5-month period must be used as the transitional cost accounting period; it may not be combined as provided in 9904.406-50(f), because the transitional period would be longer than 15 months. The new fiscal year must be adopted thereafter as his regular cost accounting period. The change in his cost accounting period is a change in accounting practices; adjustments of the contract prices may thereafter be required in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) (ii) or (iii) of the contract clause at 9903.201-4(a).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Financial reports to stockholders are made on a calendar year basis for the entire contractor corporation. However, the contracting segment does all internal financial planning, budgeting, and internal reporting on the basis of a “model year.” The contracting parties agree to use a “model year” and they agree to overhead rates on the “model year” basis. They also agree on a technique for prorating fiscal year assignment of corporate home office expenses between model years. This practice is permitted by the Standard.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Most financial accounts and contract cost records are maintained on the basis of a fiscal year which ends November 30 each year. However, employee vacation allowances are regularly managed on the basis of a “vacation year” which ends September 30 each year. Vacation expenses are estimated uniformly during each “vacation year.” Adjustments are made each October to adjust the accrued liability to actual, and the estimating rates are modified to the extent deemed appropriate. This use of a separate annual period for determining the amounts of vacation expense is permitted under 9904.406-50(b).


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
