<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9903_202_8_T48_70102642118">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9903.202-8</ph> Subcontractor Disclosure Statements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor or higher tier subcontractor is responsible for administering the CAS requirements contained in subcontracts.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) If the subcontractor has previously furnished a Disclosure Statement to an ACO, the subcontractor may satisfy the submission requirement by identifying to the contractor or higher tier subcontractor the ACO to whom it was submitted.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			If the subcontractor considers the Disclosure Statement (or other similar information) privileged or confidential, the subcontractor may submit it directly to the ACO and auditor cognizant of the subcontractor, notifying the contractor or higher tier subcontractor. A preaward determination of adequacy is not required in such cases. Instead, the ACO cognizant of the subcontractor shall
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Notify the auditor that the adequacy review will be performed during the postaward compliance review and, upon completion,
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Notify the subcontractor, the contractor or higher tier subcontractor, and the cognizant ACOs of the findings.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Even though a Disclosure Statement is not required, a subcontractor may
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Claim that CAS-related reviews by contractors or higher tier subcontractors would reveal proprietary data or jeopardize the subcontractor's competitive position and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Request that the Government perform the required reviews.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) When the Government requires determinations of adequacy or inadequacy, the ACO cognizant of the subcontractor shall make such recommendation to the ACO cognizant of the prime contractor or next higher tier subcontractor. ACOs cognizant of higher tier subcontractors or prime contractors shall not reverse the determination of the ACO cognizant of the subcontractor.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
