<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_9904_405_30_T48_70102650145">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">9904.405-30</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) The following are definitions of terms which are prominent in this Standard. Other terms defined elsewhere in this part 99 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those definitions unless paragraph (b) of this subsection, requires otherwise.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Directly associated cost</i> means any cost which is generated solely as a result of the incurrence of another cost, and which would not have been incurred had the other cost not been incurred.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Expressly unallowable cost</i> means a particular item or type of cost which, under the express provisions of an applicable law, regulation, or contract, is specifically named and stated to be unallowable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Indirect cost</i> means any cost not directly identified with a single final cost objective, but identified with two or more final cost objectives or with at least one intermediate cost objective.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) <i>Unallowable cost</i> means any cost which, under the provisions of any pertinent law, regulation, or contract, cannot be included in prices, cost reimbursements, or settlements under a Government contract to which it is allocable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The following modifications of terms defined elsewhere in this chapter 99 are applicable to this Standard: None.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
