<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1315_204_570_T48_5064515112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1315.204-570</ph> Part IV representations and instructions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Section L, Instructions, conditions, and notices to offerors or respondents.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer shall insert the provision 1352.215-70, <i>Proposal Preparation,</i> in all solicitations. Contracting officers should tailor the provision to best meet the Government's needs. Information requested from offerors in Volume II-Technical Proposal, must correspond to the evaluation factors. Contracting officers should not request information that will not be evaluated in accord with the stated technical evaluation factors. Should electronic submission be allowed by the CO, specific instructions must be added.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Insert a provision similar to 1352.215-71, <i>Instructions for Oral Presentations,</i> in solicitations when oral presentations will be used. Contracting officers shall tailor the provision to suit their acquisition.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer shall insert the provision 1352.215-72, <i>Inquiries,</i> in solicitations as determined by the CO. This provision may be modified to satisfy the needs of specific procurements.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Section M, Evaluation factors for award.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer shall insert provision 1352.215-73, <i>Evaluation Quantities-Indefinite Quantity Contract,</i> in solicitations for indefinite quantity and requirements contracts, as appropriate. This provision may be modified to satisfy the needs of specific procurements.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer shall insert the provision similar to 1352.215-74, <i>Best Value Evaluation,</i> for competitive, best value procurements, tailoring the language as appropriate. If clause 1352.215-74, <i>Best Value Evaluation,</i> is used, then clause 1352.215-75 <i>Evaluation Criteria,</i> must be used.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) The contracting officer shall insert a provision in all solicitations similar to 1352.215-75, <i>Evaluation Criteria,</i> to specify evaluation criteria, tailoring the language as appropriate. If the basis for award is lowest price technically acceptable, this must be stated.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) The contracting officer shall insert provision 1352.215-76, <i>Cost or Pricing Data,</i> in all solicitations when cost or pricing data is required under FAR subpart 15.4.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
