<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_90_T48_50650452183">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-90</ph> Insurance requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.121, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Insurance Requirements (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor shall procure and thereafter maintain the following insurance:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Ship contractor's legal liability insurance to insure the risks described in paragraph (b) of clause 1352.271-79. This insurance shall be for $1,000,000.00.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Comprehensive general liability insurance and automobile insurance to insure the risks described in paragraph (c) of clause 1352.271-79. This insurance shall be for $1,000,000.00 on account of any one accident or occurrence with respect to each vessel, boat, and/or barge upon which work is performed. The contractor shall cause the Government to be named as an additional insured under any and all liability insurance policies.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Full coverage in accordance with the State Worker's Compensation law; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Full coverage in accordance with the United States Longshoremen's and Harbor Worker's Act.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) As evidence that it has obtained the insurance specified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer with a certificate or certificates executed by an agent of the insurer authorized to execute such certificates. Such certificates shall be furnished prior to commencement of the work. Each certificate shall state that (name of insurer) has insured (name of contractor) awarded contract number ______ for repair/alteration of (name of vessel) in accordance with the Liability and Insurance clause and the Insurance Requirements clause contained herein. Each certificate shall set forth that each policy of insurance represented thereby will expire on (APR 2010) and that each such policy contains the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">“It is agreed that in the event of cancellation or any material change in the policy adversely affecting the interest of the Government in this insurance, 30 days prior written notice will be given to the Contracting Officer.”</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
