<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_215_76_T48_50650452120">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.215-76</ph> Cost or pricing data.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1315.204-570(b)(4), insert the following provision:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Cost or Pricing Data
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD3">Additional Instructions for Preparation of Cost/Price Proposals
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> In addition to the information required by CAR 1352.215-70, the cost/price proposal must contain an explanation of the offeror's and proposed subcontractors' fully burdened rates, including direct salary rates, overhead rates, and profit; and information regarding other direct costs.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Specific Requirements.</i> 
				</p><p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Direct Salary Rates: The offeror shall list the categories of professional or technical personnel required to perform the Statement of Work. A brief definition of the education and experience requirements which qualify an employee for inclusion in a listed category should be provided. Further, if some proposed labor categories are classified by multiple grades within a given discipline (<i>e.g.,</i> Architect I and II, or Senior and Junior Engineer), a brief explanation as to how they are differentiated shall be provided.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The offeror, and major subcontractors, should provide individual rates for key personnel. Designation of an individual as a key person is subject to agreement of the parties. Where no key personnel are listed, category average rates are appropriate. Rates should be provided by year for the life of the contract. If rates are escalated, the degree (percent) and methodology must be shown. Escalation increases should reflect recent experience or established personnel policy. Types of salary increases given - merit, cost of living, <i>etc.</i> - should be discussed.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Overhead Costs. Generally, the offeror's accounting system and estimating practices will determine the method used to allocate overhead costs. The offeror's established practices, if in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, will be accepted. Proposed overhead rates should represent the offeror's best estimate of the rates to be experienced during the contract period as projected by company budgets or by recent experience adjusted for factors which will influence trends. A narrative statement outlining the offeror's policies and practices for accumulating overhead costs and the method used to compute the proposed rate or rates is required. In the case of multi-branch firms, joint ventures or affiliates, it is expected that overhead costs applicable to the specific location(s) where work is to be performed will be proposed. Company-wide, joint venture, or affiliate rate averages may not be appropriate. The rates should be tailored to the work location(s).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Profit. 
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			A fair and reasonable provision for profit cannot be made by simply applying a certain predetermined percentage to the total estimated cost. Rather, profit should be established as a percentage/dollar amount after considering such factors as:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">
				</p><p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			Degree of risk;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(B) Nature of the work to be performed;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(C) Joint venture responsibilities;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(D) Extent of offeror's investment;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(E) Subcontracting of work; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(F) Other criteria discussed in FAR 15.404-4.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Separate percentage rates for profit are also required for major subcontractors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(5) Markup. The offeror may request a markup on subcontract labor. If it does so, it should state the percentage and provide a justification for that figure.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(6) Other Direct Costs. The offeror shall briefly describe the following:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">
				</p><p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Travel/Subsistence costs;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(ii) Subcontractor costs; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(iii) How subcontracting costs were analyzed.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Audit Reports. If the offeror or any subcontractor has been audited by a Government agency within the last two years, or has approved indirect cost rates, provide a copy of the audit report, or, if not available, the name, address, and telephone number of the audit office. Similarly, information on any Government-approved indirect cost rates should be provided.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
