<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_271_87_T48_50650452180">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.271-87</ph> Changes - ship repair.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1371.118, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Changes - Ship Repair (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Contracting Officer may, at any time, by written order, and without notice to the sureties, if any, make changes within the general scope of this contract, in any one or more of the following:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Drawings, designs, or specifications, when the supplies to be furnished are to be specially manufactured for the Government in accordance with the drawings, designs, or specifications;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Method of shipment or packing;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Place of performance of the work;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Time of commencement or completion of the work; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(5) Other requirements within the general scope of the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for, performance of any part of the work under this contract, whether changed or not changed by the order, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract price, the delivery schedule, or both, and shall modify the contract accordingly.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor must submit any proposal for adjustment under this clause within 5 days from the date of receipt of the written order. At the Contracting Officer's discretion, the 5-day period may be shortened. However, if the Contracting Officer decides that the facts justify it, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon a proposal submitted before final payment of the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If the contractor's proposal includes the cost of property rendered obsolete or excess by the change, the Contracting Officer shall have the right to prescribe the manner of the disposition of the property.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. However, nothing in this clause shall excuse the contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
