<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1309_507_2_T48_5064410316">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1309.507-2</ph> Contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) In accordance with FAR 9.507-2, insert clause 1352.209-71, <i>Limitation of Future Contracting,</i> substantially as written, when the contractor's eligibility for future prime contract or subcontract awards shall be restricted because of services being provided as stated in FAR 9.505-1 through 9.505-4.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Insert the basic clause when the contractor will be providing systems engineering and/or technical direction. (<i>See</i> FAR 9.505-1)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Insert the clause with its Alternate I when the contractor will be preparing specifications or work statements. (<i>See</i> FAR 9.505-2)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Insert the clause with its Alternate II when the contractor will be providing technical evaluation or advisory and assistance services. (<i>See</i> FAR 9.505-3)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Insert the clause with its Alternate III when the contractor will be obtaining access to proprietary information. (<i>See</i> FAR 9.505-4)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(5) Insert the clause with its Alternate IV when the contract is a task order contract. The contracting officer may modify Alternate IV to include a list of systems for which task orders may be issued and indicate which organizational conflict of interest provision in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause shall apply.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(6) Insert the clause with its Alternate V when the contract provides for delivery orders. The contracting officer shall indicate in each delivery order which organizational conflict of interest provision in paragraph (a)(2) of this clause shall apply.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(7) Insert the language in Alternate VI when it is necessary to have the restrictions of this clause included in all or some subcontracts, teaming arrangements, and other agreements calling for performance of work related to the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Insert clause 1352.209-72, <i>Restrictions against Disclosure,</i> in service contracts, including architect-engineer contracts, and supply and construction contracts requiring a restriction on the release of information developed or obtained in connection with performance of the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Insert the clause 1352.209-73, <i>Compliance with the Laws,</i> in all solicitations and contracts.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) Insert the clause 1352.209-74, <i>Organizational Conflict of Interest,</i> in all solicitations and contracts.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Insert clause 1352.209-75, <i>Title 13 and Non-Disclosure Requirements,</i> in all solicitations and contracts for services where the contractor will have access to Title 13 data.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
