<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1352_201_72_T48_5065045214">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1352.201-72</ph> Contracting Officer's Representative (COR).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in 48 CFR 1301.670-70, insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) (APR 2010)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) ___________ is hereby designated as the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). The COR may be changed at any time by the Government without prior notice to the contractor by a unilateral modification to the contract. The COR is located at:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Phone Number:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">E-mail:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The responsibilities and limitations of the COR are as follows:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The COR is responsible for the technical aspects of the contract and serves as technical liaison with the contractor. The COR is also responsible for the final inspection and acceptance of all deliverables and such other responsibilities as may be specified in the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The COR is not authorized to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any changes which affect the contract price, terms or conditions. Any contractor request for changes shall be referred to the Contracting Officer directly or through the COR. No such changes shall be made without the express written prior authorization of the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer may designate assistant or alternate COR(s) to act for the COR by naming such assistant/alternate(s) in writing and transmitting a copy of such designation to the contractor.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
