<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_352_270_5b_T48_4018362139">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">352.270-5</ph>b Care of Live Vertebrate Animals.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in HHSAR 370.404, the Contracting Officer shall insert the following clause:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Care of Live Vertebrate Animals (DEC 2015)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Before undertaking performance of any contract involving animal-related activities where the species is regulated by the United Sates Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Contractor shall register with the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States in accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR 2.25 through 2.28. The Contractor shall furnish evidence of the registration to the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Contractor shall acquire vertebrate animals used in research from a dealer licensed by the Secretary of Agriculture under 7 U.S.C. 2133 and 9 CFR 2.1-2.11, or from a source that is exempt from licensing under those sections.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor agrees that the care, use, and intended use of any live vertebrate animals in the performance of this contract shall conform with the Public Health Service (PHS) Policy on Humane Care of Use of Laboratory Animals (PHS Policy), the current Animal Welfare Assurance (Assurance), the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (National Academy Press, Washington, DC) and the pertinent laws and regulations of the United States Department of Agriculture (<i>see</i> 7 U.S.C. 2131 <i>et seq.</i> and 9 CFR subchapter A, Parts 1-4). In case of conflict between standards, the more stringent standard shall govern.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) If at any time during performance of this contract, the Contracting Officer determines, in consultation with the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW), National Institutes of Health (NIH), that the Contractor is not in compliance with any of the requirements and standards stated in paragraphs (a) through (c) above, the Contracting Officer may immediately suspend, in whole or in part, work and further payments under this contract until the Contractor corrects the noncompliance. Notice of the suspension may be communicated by telephone and confirmed in writing. If the Contractor fails to complete corrective action within the period of time designated in the Contracting Officer's written notice of suspension, the Contracting Officer may, in consultation with OLAW, NIH, terminate this contract in whole or in part, and the Contractor's name may be removed from the list of those contractors with Animal Welfare Assurances.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Note: The Contractor may request registration of its facility and a current listing of licensed dealers from the Regional Office of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), USDA, for the region in which its research facility is located. The location of the appropriate APHIS Regional Office, as well as information concerning this program may be obtained by contacting the Animal Care Staff, USDA/APHIS, 4700 River Road, Riverdale, Maryland 20737 (Email: <i>ace@aphis.usda.gov</i>; Web site: (<i>http://www.aphis.usda.gov/wps/portal/aphis/ourfocus/animalwelfare</i>).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
