<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1609_471_T48_602108112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1609.471</ph> Contractor certification.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">All FEHBP carriers and applicant carriers are required to submit the following certification. Applicant carriers must submit the certification prior to OPM's determination on the application for approval to participate in the FEHBP. Current carriers must submit the certification once, along with their benefit and rate proposals for the 1995 contract year.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Debarment, Suspension, Proposed Debarment, and Other Responsibility Matters
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The Carrier certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Carrier and/or any of its Principals - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Are ( ) are not ( ) presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Have ( ) have not ( ), within a 3-year period preceding this certification, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, state, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Are ( ) are not ( ) presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of any of the offenses enumerated in subdivision (a)(2) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) The Carrier has ( ) has not ( ), within a 3-year period preceding this certification, had one or more contracts terminated for default by any Federal agency.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Principals,</i> for the purposes of this certification, means officers; directors; owners; partners; and persons having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a subsidiary, division, or business segment, and similar positions).
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">This certification concerns a matter within the jurisdiction of an agency of the United States and the making of a false, fictitious, or fraudulent certification may render the Carrier subject to prosecution under section 1001, title 18, United States Code.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Carrier shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time, the Carrier learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) A Carrier's certification that any of the actions mentioned in the certification exists will not necessarily result in termination of the contract. However, the certification, or the Carrier's failure to provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer, will be considered in connection with a determination of the Carrier's responsibility under subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_1609_70_T48_6021082"
                  href="Subpart_1609_70_T48_6021082.dita#Subpart_1609_70_T48_6021082">1609.70</xref>, Minimum Standards for Health Benefits Carriers. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) Nothing contained in the certification shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by this section. The knowledge and information of the Carrier is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) The certification in this section is a material representation of fact upon which reliance is placed by the Contracting Officer. If it is later determined that the Carrier knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract for default.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Carrier Name: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">Name of Chief Executive Officer
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">Date signed:</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of certificate)


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
