<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e5641"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1552.211-74</ph> Work assignments.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e1703"
                  href="48_6.0.1.2.10.0.1.7.dita#d1e1703">1511.011-74</xref>, insert the following contract clause in cost-reimbursement contracts when work assignments are to be used.
</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">
                                 <p outputclass="HD3" class="- topic/p ">Work Assignments (DEC 2014)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The contractor shall perform work under this contract as specified in written work assignments issued by the Contracting Officer.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Each work assignment may include (1) a numerical designation, (2) approved workplan labor hours or an estimated initial level of effort provided in accordance with <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="d1e1703"
                     href="48_6.0.1.2.10.0.1.7.dita#d1e1703">1511.011-74</xref>, (3) the period of performance and schedule of deliverables, and (4) the description of the work.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The Contractor shall acknowledge receipt of each work assignment by returning to the Contracting Officer a signed copy of the work assignment within _ calendar days after its receipt. The Contractor shall begin working on a work plan immediately upon receipt of a work assignment. Within _ calendar days after receipt of a work assignment, the Contractor shall submit _ copies of a work plan to the Contract-level Contracting Officer's Representative and _ copies to the Contracting Officer. The work plan shall include a detailed technical and staffing plan and a detailed cost estimate. Within _ calendar days after receipt of the work plan, the Contracting Officer will provide written approval or disapproval of it to the Contractor. The Contractor is not authorized to start work without an approved work plan unless approved by the Contracting Officer or otherwise specified. Also, if the Contracting Officer disapproves a work plan, the Contractor shall stop work until the problem causing the disapproval is resolved. In either case, the Contractor shall resume work only when the Contracting Officer approves the work plan.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) This clause does not change the requirements of the “Level of Effort” clause, nor the notification requirements of either the “Limitation of Cost” or “Limitation of Funds” clauses.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Work assignments shall not allow for any change to the terms or conditions of the contract. Where any language in the work assignment may suggest a change to the terms or conditions, the Contractor shall immediately notify the Contracting Officer.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)
</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">
                                 <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I</i> (APR 1984). As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="d1e1703"
                     href="48_6.0.1.2.10.0.1.7.dita#d1e1703">1511.011-74</xref>(b)(1), modify the existing clause by adding the following paragraph (f) to the basic clause:


</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Within 20 days of receipt of the work assignment or similar tasking document, the Contractor shall provide a conflict of interest (COI) certification. Where work assignments or similar tasking documents are issued under this contract for work on or directly related to a site, the Contractor is only required to provide a COI certification for the first work assignment issued for that site. For all subsequent work on that site under this contract, the Contractor has a continuing obligation to search and report any actual or potential COIs, but no additional COI certifications are required.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">Before submitting the COI certification, the Contractor shall search its records accumulated, at a minimum, over the past three years immediately prior to the receipt of the work assignment or similar tasking document. In the COI certification, the Contractor must certify to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief that all actual or potential organizational COIs have been reported to the Contracting Officer, or that to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, no actual or potential organizational COIs exist. In addition, the Contractor must certify that its personnel who perform work under this work assignment or relating to this work assignment have been informed of their obligation to report personal and organizational COIs to the Contractor. The COI certification shall also include a statement that the Contractor recognizes its continuing obligation to identify and report any actual or potential COI arising during performance of this work assignment or other work related to this site.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate II</i> (APR 1984). As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="d1e1703"
                     href="48_6.0.1.2.10.0.1.7.dita#d1e1703">1511.011-74</xref>(b)(1), modify the existing clause by adding the following paragraph (f) to the basic clause:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Within 20 days of receipt of the work assignment or similar tasking document, the Contractor shall provide a conflict of interest (COI) certification. Where work assignments or similar tasking documents are issued under this contract for work on or directly related to a site, the Contractor is only required to provide a COI certification for the first work assignment issued for that site. For all subsequent work on that site under this contract, the Contractor has a continuing obligation to search and report any actual or potential COIs, but no additional COI certifications are required.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">Before submitting the COI certification, the Contractor shall initially search through all of its available records to identify any actual or potential COIs. During the first three years of this contract, the Contractor shall search through all records created since the beginning of the contract plus the records of the Contractor prior to the award of the contract until a minimum of three years of records are accumulated. Once three years of records have accumulated, prior to certifying, the Contractor shall search its records accumulated, at a minimum, over the past three years immediately prior to the receipt of the work assignment or similar tasking document. In the COI certification, the Contractor must certify to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, that all actual or potential organizational COIs have been reported to the Contracting Officer, or that to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, no actual or potential organizational COIs exist. In addition, the Contractor must certify that its personnel who perform work under this work assignment or relating to this work assignment have been informed of their obligation to report personal and organizational COIs to the Contractor. The COI certification shall also include a statement that the Contractor recognizes its continuing obligation to identify and report any actual or potential COI arising during performance of this work assignment or other work related to this site.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate III</i> (DEC 2014). As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="d1e1703"
                     href="48_6.0.1.2.10.0.1.7.dita#d1e1703">1511.011-74</xref>(b)(2), modify the existing clause by adding the following paragraph (f) to the basic clause:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Within 20 days of receipt of the work assignment or similar tasking document, the Contractor shall provide a conflict of interest (COI) certification.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">Before submitting the COI certification, the Contractor shall search its records accumulated, at a minimum, over the past three years immediately prior to the receipt of the work assignment or similar tasking document. In the COI certification, the Contractor must certify to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief that all actual or potential organizational COIs have been reported to the Contracting Officer, or that to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, no actual or potential organizational COIs exist. In addition, the Contractor must certify that its personnel who perform work under this work assignment or relating to this work assignment have been informed of their obligation to report personal and organizational COIs to the Contractor. The COI certification shall also include a statement that the Contractor recognizes its continuing obligation to identify and report any actual or potential COI arising during performance of this work assignment.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">
                                    <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate IV</i> (DEC 2014). As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="d1e1703"
                     href="48_6.0.1.2.10.0.1.7.dita#d1e1703">1511.011-74</xref>(b)(2), modify the existing clause by adding the following paragraph (f) to the basic clause:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Within 20 days of receipt of the work assignment or similar tasking document, the Contractor shall provide a conflict of interest (COI) certification.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">Before submitting the COI certification, the Contractor shall initially search through all of its available records to identify any actual or potential COIs. During the first three years of this contract, the Contractor shall search through all records created since the beginning of the contract plus records of the Contractor prior to the award of the contract until a minimum of three years of records have accumulated. Once three years of records have accumulated, prior to certifying, the Contractor shall search its records, at a minimum, over the past three years immediately prior to the receipt of the work assignment or similar tasking document. In the COI certification, the Contractor must certify to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief that all actual or potential organizational COIs have been reported to the Contracting Officer, or that to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, no actual or potential organizational COIs exist. In addition, the Contractor must certify that its personnel who perform work under this work assignment or relating to this work assignment have been informed of their obligation to report personal and organizational COIs to the Contractor. The COI certification shall also include a statement that the Contractor recognizes its continuing obligation to identify and report any actual or potential COI arising during performance of this work assignment.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)
</p>
         
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
