<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e5447"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1552.211-72</ph> Monthly progress report.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e1679"
                  href="48_6.0.1.2.10.0.1.5.dita#d1e1679">1511.011-72</xref>, insert the following clause: 
</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">
                                 <p outputclass="HD1" class="- topic/p ">Monthly Progress Report (JUN 1996)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The Contractor shall furnish __ copies of the combined monthly technical and financial progress report stating the progress made, including the percentage of the project completed, and a description of the work accomplished to support the cost. If the work is ordered using work assignments or delivery orders, include the estimated percentage of task completed during the reporting period for each work assignment or delivery order. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Specific discussions shall include difficulties encountered and remedial action taken during the reporting period, and anticipated activity with a schedule of deliverables for the subsequent reporting period. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The Contractor shall provide a list of outstanding actions awaiting Contracting Officer authorization, noted with the corresponding work assignment, such as subcontractor consents, overtime approvals, and work plan approvals. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) The report shall specify financial status at the contract level as follows: 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) For the current reporting period, display the amount claimed. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) For the cumulative period and the cumulative contract life display: the amount obligated, amount originally invoiced, amount paid, amount suspended, amount disallowed, and remaining approved amount. The remaining approved amount is defined as the total obligated amount, less the total amount originally invoiced, plus total amount disallowed. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Labor hours. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) A list of employees, their labor categories, and the numbers of hours worked for the reporting period. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) For the current reporting period display the expended direct labor hours (by EPA contract labor category), and the total loaded direct labor costs.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) For the cumulative contract period display: The negotiated and expended direct labor hours (by EPA labor category) and the total loaded direct labor costs.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv) Display the estimated direct labor hours and costs to be expended during the next reporting period. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) Display the current dollar ceilings in the contract, net amount invoiced, and remaining amounts for the following categories: Direct labor hours, total estimated cost, award fee pool (if applicable), subcontracts by individual subcontractor, travel, program management, and Other Direct Costs (ODCs). 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5) Unbilled allowable costs. Display the total costs incurred but unbilled for the current reporting period and cumulative for the contract. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6) Average total cost per labor hour. For the current contract period, compare the actual cost per hour to date with the average total cost per hour of the approved work plans.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) The report shall specify financial status at the work assignment or delivery order level as follows: 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) For the current period, display the amount claimed. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) For the cumulative period display: amount shown on workplan, or latest work assignment/delivery order amendment amount (whichever is later); amount currently claimed; amount paid; amount suspended; amount disallowed; and remaining approved amount. The remaining approved amount is defined as: the workplan amount or latest work assignment or delivery order amount (whichever is later), less total amounts originally invoiced, plus total amount disallowed. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Labor hours. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) A list of employees, their labor categories, and the number of hours worked for the reporting period. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) For the current reporting period display the expended direct labor hours (by EPA contract labor category), and the total loaded direct labor hours.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) For the cumulative reporting period and the cumulative contract period display: The negotiated and expended direct labor hours (by EPA labor hour category) and the loaded direct labor rate.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv) Display the estimated direct labor hours and costs to be expended during the next reporting period. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v) Display the estimates of remaining direct labor hours and costs required to complete the work assignment or delivery order. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) Unbilled allowable costs. Display the total costs incurred but unbilled for the current reporting period and cumulative for the work assignment. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5) Average total cost labor hour. For the current contract period, compare the actual total cost per hour to date with the average total cost per hour of the approved workplans.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6) A list of deliverables for each work assignment or delivery order during the reporting period. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) This submission does not change the notification requirements of the “Limitation of Cost” or “Limitation of Funds” clauses requiring separate written notice to the Contracting Officer. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g) The reports shall be submitted to the following addresses on or before the __ of each month following the first complete reporting period of the contract. See EPAAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     base="d1e8872"
                     href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.56.dita#d1e8872">1552.232-70</xref>, Submission of Invoices, paragraph (e), for details on the timing of submittals. Distribute reports as follows:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="DIV" class="- topic/p ">
                                    
                                       <table class="- topic/table ">
                  <tgroup cols="3" outputclass="FormatA" class="- topic/tgroup ">
                     <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0" class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0" class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colsep="0" class="- topic/colspec "/>
                     <thead class="- topic/thead ">
                        <row class="- topic/row ">
                                             <entry colname="1" class="- topic/entry ">No. of copies
</entry>
                                             <entry colname="2" class="- topic/entry ">Addressee
</entry>
                                             <entry colname="3" class="- topic/entry ">Address (email and/or shipping)
</entry>
                                          </row>
                     </thead>
                     <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                        <row class="- topic/row ">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left" class="- topic/entry "/>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left" class="- topic/entry ">Contracting Officer's Representative.
</entry>
                                             <entry colname="3" align="left" class="- topic/entry "/>
                                          </row>
                        <row class="- topic/row ">
                                             <entry colname="1" align="left" class="- topic/entry "/>
                                             <entry colname="2" align="left" class="- topic/entry ">Contracting Officer</entry>
                                             <entry colname="3" align="left" class="- topic/entry "/>
                                          </row>
                     </tbody>
                  </tgroup>
               </table>
                                    
                                 </p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)
</p>
         
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
