<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e3089"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1517.208</ph> Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The Contracting Officer shall insert the provision at 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e7709"
                  href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.40.dita#d1e7709">1552.217-70</xref>, Evaluation of Contract Options, in solicitations containing options.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e7731"
                  href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.41.dita#d1e7731">1552.217-71</xref>, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract - Cost-Type Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e7864"
                  href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.42.dita#d1e7864">1552.217-72</xref>, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract - Cost-Plus-Award-Fee Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e8019"
                  href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.43.dita#d1e8019">1552.217-73</xref>, Option for Increased Quantity - Cost-Type Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e8153"
                  href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.44.dita#d1e8153">1552.217-74</xref>, Option for Increased Quantity - Cost-Plus-Award-Fee Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e8299"
                  href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.45.dita#d1e8299">1552.217-75</xref>, Option to Extend the Effective Period of the Contract - Time and Materials or Labor Hour Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g) The Contracting Officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e8329"
                  href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.46.dita#d1e8329">1552.217-76</xref>, Option to Extend the Effective Period of the Contract - Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity Contract, when applicable.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h) The Contracting officer shall insert the clause at 48 CFR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e8360"
                  href="48_6.0.1.8.36.1.1.47.dita#d1e8360">1552.217-77</xref>, Option to Extend the Term of the Contract - Fixed Price, when applicable.
</p>
         
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
