<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e4887"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1552.209-71</ph> Organizational conflicts of interest.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e1578"
                  href="48_6.0.1.2.9.2.1.7.dita#d1e1578">1509.507-2</xref>, insert the following contract clause in all contracts except: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) When specific clauses are required per EPAAR part 1509;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) When the procurement is with another Federal agency (however, the provision is included in contracts with SBA and its subcontractor under the 8(a) program); and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) When the procurement is accomplished through simplified acquisition procedures, use of the clause is optional. 
</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">
                                 <p outputclass="HD1" class="- topic/p ">Organizational Conflicts of Interest (MAY 1994)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The Contractor warrants that, to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, there are no relevant facts or circumstances which could give rise to an organizational conflict of interest, as defined in FAR subpart 9.5, or that the Contractor has disclosed all such relevant information. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Prior to commencement of any work, the Contractor agrees to notify the Contracting Officer immediately that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no actual or potential conflict of interest exists or to identify to the Contracting Officer any actual or potential conflict of interest the firm may have. In emergency situations, however, work may begin but notification shall be made within five (5) working days. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The Contractor agrees that if an actual or potential organizational conflict of interest is identified during performance, the Contractor will immediately make a full disclosure in writing to the Contracting Officer. This disclosure shall include a description of actions which the Contractor has taken or proposes to take, after consultation with the Contracting Officer, to avoid, mitigate, or neutralize the actual or potential conflict of interest. The Contractor shall continue performance until notified by the Contracting Officer of any contrary action to be taken. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Remedies - The EPA may terminate this contract for convenience, in whole or in part, if it deems such termination necessary to avoid an organizational conflict of interest. If the Contractor was aware of a potential organizational conflict of interest prior to award or discovered an actual or potential conflict after award and did not disclose it or misprepresented relevant information to the Contracting officer, the Government may terminate the contract for default, debar the Contractor from Government contracting, or pursue such other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) The Contractor agrees to insert in each subcontract or consultant agreement placed hereunder, except for subcontracts or consultant agreements for well drilling, fence erecting, plumbing, utility hookups, security guard services, or electrical services, provisions which shall conform substantially to the language of this clause, including this paragraph (e), unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause) 
</p>
         <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">
                                 <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Alternate I</i> (SEP 1998). Contracts for other than Superfund work shall include Alternate I in this clause in lieu of paragraph (e).
</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) The Contractor agrees to insert in each subcontract or consultant agreement placed hereunder provisions which shall conform substantially to the language of this clause, including this paragraph, unless otherwise authorized by the contracting officer.</p>
                              </note>
         
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
