<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e11686" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1603.7001</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) OPM prepares and distributes or makes available to Federal employees and annuitants a comparison booklet which presents summary information and a benefits brochure which details benefits, limitations, and premium rates for all participating plans. OPM does not encourage, support, or reimburse participating carriers for the costs of advertisements. However, while OPM believes that advertising is unnecessary, it recognizes that the decision to use advertising rests with each carrier. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) OPM discourages advertising that is misleading or deceptive. This includes advertising that is directed at other carriers' plans participating in the Program and which uses incomplete or inappropriate comparisons or disparaging or minimizing techniques. Such unfair practices are prejudicial to the interests of the vast majority of carriers whose advertising is fair and accurate. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Failure to conform to the requirements of this subpart shall be a material breach of the contract and may result in withdrawal of approval to continue participation in the FEHB Program. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[52 FR 16039, May 1, 1987. Redesignated at 62 FR 47574, Sept. 10, 1997]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
