<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e1219"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1506.302-5</ph> Authorized or required by statute.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Authority.</i> Section 109(e) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) is cited as authority.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Application.</i> (1) The contracting officer may use other than full and open competition to acquire the services of experts for use in preparing or prosecuting a civil or criminal action under SARA whether or not the expert is expected to testify at trial. The contracting officer need not provide any written justification (e.g., under FAR 6.303, 8.405-6, or 13.501) for the use of other than full and open competitive procedures when acquiring expert services under the authority of section 109(e) of SARA. The contracting officer shall document the official contract file when using this authority.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The contracting officer shall give notice to the Agency's Competition Advocate whenever a contract award is made using other than full and open competitition under this authority. The notice shall contain a copy of the contract and the summary of negotiations.
</p>
         
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
