<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e7384"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1552.216-77</ph> Award term incentive.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e2853"
                  href="48_6.0.1.3.14.2.1.8.dita#d1e2853">1516.406</xref>(c), insert a clause substantially the same as follows:
</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">
                                 <p outputclass="HD1" class="- topic/p ">Award Term Incentive (FEB 2008) 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General.</i> This contract may be extended as set forth in paragraph (b) based on overall contractor performance as evaluated in accordance with the Clause entitled “Award Term Incentive Plan,” provided the Agency has a need for the effort at or before the time an award term is to commence, and if the contractor receives notice of the availability of funding for an award term period pursuant to the “Award Term Availability of Funds” clause. The Contracting Officer is responsible for the overall award term evaluation and award term decision. The Contracting Officer will unilaterally decide whether or not the contractor is eligible for an award term extension, and in conjunction with the Contracting Officer's Representative, will determine the need for continued performance and funding availability.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Period of performance.</i> Provided the contractor has achieved the performance measures, e.g., acceptable quality levels, set forth in the clause “Award Term Incentive Plan,” the Contracting Officer may extend the contract by exercising ____ [insert the total award term incentive periods] additional award term incentive period(s) of ____ [insert the award term incentive period] months each. The total maximum period of performance under this contract, if the Government exercises any option periods and all award term incentive periods is ____ [insert the total of the base period, option periods (if any), and award term incentive periods] years.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Right not to grant or cancel the award term incentive.</i> (1) The Government has the unilateral right not to grant or to cancel award term incentive periods and the associated award term incentive plans if - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) The Contracting Officer has failed to initiate an award term incentive period, regardless of whether the contractor's performance permitted the Contracting Officer to consider initiating the award term incentive period; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) The contractor has failed to achieve the performance measures for the corresponding evaluation period; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) The Government notifies the contractor in writing it does not have funds available for the award term incentive periods; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv) The Government no longer has a need for the award term incentive period at or before the time an award term incentive period is to commence.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) When an award term incentive period is not granted or cancelled, any - 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) Prior award term incentive periods for which the contractor remains otherwise eligible are unaffected.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Subsequent award term incentive periods are thereby also cancelled.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Cancellation of an award term incentive period that has not yet commenced for any of the reasons set forth in paragraph (c) of this clause shall not be considered either a termination for convenience or termination for default, and shall not entitle the contractor to any termination settlement or any other compensation. If the award term incentive is cancelled, a unilateral modification will cite this clause as the authority.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Award term incentive administration.</i> The award term incentive evaluation(s) will be completed in accordance with the schedule in the Award Term Incentive Plan. The contractor will be notified of the results and their eligibility to be considered for the respective award term incentive no later than 120 days after an evaluation period.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Review process.</i> The contractor may request a review of an award term incentive evaluation which has resulted in the contractor being ineligible for the award term incentive. The request shall be submitted in writing to the Contracting Officer within 15 days after notification of the results of the evaluation.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)
</p>
         
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
