<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e1367"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1509.406-3</ph> Procedures.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Investigation and referral</i> - (1) Contracting officer responsibility. (i) When contracting personnel discover information which indicates that a cause for debarment may exist, they shall promptly report such information to the cognizant Chief of the Contracting Office (CCO). Purchasing agents in simplified acquisition activities which do not come under the direct cognizance of a CCO shall report such information by memorandum, through their immediate supervisor, and addressed to the cognizant CCO responsible for their office's contract acquisitions. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Contracting officers shall review “The List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs” to ensure that the Agency does not solicit offers from, award contracts to, or consent to subcontracts with listed contractors. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(2) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Chief of the Contracting Office responsibility.</i> When the Chief of the Contracting Office determines that sufficient information is available to indicate that a cause for debarment may exist, such information shall be promptly reported by memorandum to the HCA. The memorandum provides the Chief of the Contracting Office's assessment of the information, any investigative report or audit, and any additional information he/she has discovered. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(3) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">HCA responsibility.</i> Upon receipt of a report of a suspected debarment situation, the HCA shall take the following actions: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(i) Notify the Director, Suspension and Debarment Division, that investigation of a potential debarment has been initiated. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Review the reported information. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Investigate as necessary to verify or develop additional information.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(iv) Refer the matter through the Suspension and Debarment Division to the Debarring Official for consideration of debarment; request that the Suspension and Debarment Division evaluate the information and, if appropriate, refer the matter to the Debarring Official for consideration of debarment; or recommend to the Suspension and Debarment Division that the matter be closed without further action because the facts do not warrant debarment. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(v) Obtain legal counsel's opinion on referrals or recommendations made to the Debarring Official. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(vi) Notify EPA Contracting Officers of those Contractors who are ineligible for solicitation, award, or subcontracting but who do not appear on the GSA Consolidated List; e.g., those who are ineligible based on a settlement reached by the Debarring Official under which the Contractor has agreed to voluntarily exclude itself from participation in Government contracting/subcontracting for a specified period or because of a Notice of Proposal to Debar. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(4) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Any official.</i> When information is discovered which may indicate potential criminal or civil fraud activity, such information must be referred promptly to the EPA Office of Inspector General. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(5) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Debarring Official's responsibility.</i> The Debarring Official shall: 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(i) Review referrals from the HCA together with the HCA's recommendations, if any, and determine whether further consideration by the Debarring Official is warranted and take such actions as are required by FAR subpart 9.4; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Obtain the HCA's recommendation prior to reaching a voluntary exclusion settlement with a Contractor in lieu of debarment; 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Promptly notify the HCA of Contractors with whom a settlement in lieu of debarment has been reached under which the Contractor voluntarily excludes itself from or restricts its participation in Government contracting/subcontracting for a specified period; and of Contractors who have received a Notice of Proposal to Debar. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) [Reserved] 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
