<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e15943" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1652.249-71</ph> FEHBP termination for convenience of the government - negotiated benefits contracts.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As prescribed in section 1649.101-71, the following clause shall be inserted in all FEHBP contracts. 
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p outputclass="HD1">FEHBP Termination for Convenience of the Government - Negotiated Benefits Contracts (JAN 1998) 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) The Government may terminate performance of work under this contract in whole or, from time to time, in part if the Contracting Officer determines that a termination is in the Government's interest. The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Carrier a Notice of Termination specifying the extent of terminating and the effective date. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) After receipt of a Notice of Termination, and except as directed by the Contracting Officer, the Carrier shall immediately proceed with the following obligations, regardless of any delay in determining or adjusting any amounts due under this clause: 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Stop work as specified in the notice. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Place no further subcontracts except as necessary to complete the continued portion of the contract. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) Terminate all subcontracts to the extent they relate to the work terminated. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) Assign to the Government, as directed by the Contracting Officer, all right, title, and interest of the Carrier under the subcontracts terminated, in which case the Government shall have the right to settle or to pay any termination settlement proposal arising out of those terminations. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) With approval or ratification to the extent required by the Contracting Officer, settle all outstanding liabilities and termination settlement proposals arising from the termination of subcontracts; the approval or ratification will be final for purposes of this clause. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(6) As directed by the Contracting Officer, deliver to the Government any data, reports, or studies that, if the contract had been completed, would be required to be furnished to the Government. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(7) Complete performance of the work not terminated. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) After termination, the Carrier shall submit a final termination settlement proposal to the Contracting Officer in the form and with the certification prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The Carrier shall submit the proposal promptly, but no later than 1 year from the effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Carrier within this 1-year period. However, if the Contracting Officer determines that the facts justify it, a termination settlement proposal may be received and acted on after 1 year or any extension. If the Carrier fails to submit the proposal within the time allowed, the Contracting Officer may determine, on the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Carrier because of the termination and shall pay the amount determined. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) Subject to paragraph (c) of this clause, the Carrier and the Contracting Officer may agree upon the whole or any part of the amount to be paid or remaining to be paid because of the termination. The amount may include a reasonable allowance for profit on work done. However, the agreed amount, whether under this paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of this clause, exclusive of costs shown in subparagraph (e)(3) of this clause, may not exceed the total contract price as reduced by (1) the amount of payments previously made and (2) the contract price of work not terminated. The contract shall be modified, and the Carrier paid the agreed amount. Paragraph (e) of this clause shall not limit, restrict, or affect the amount that may be agreed upon to be paid under this paragraph. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) If the Carrier and the Contracting Officer fail to agree on the whole amount to be paid because of the termination of work, the Contracting Officer shall pay the Carrier the amounts determined by the Contracting Officer as follows, but without duplication of any amounts agreed on under paragraph (d) above: 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contract price for completed services accepted by the Government not previously paid for. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The total of -  
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) The costs incurred in the performance of the work terminated, including initial costs and preparatory expense allocable thereto, but excluding any costs attributable to services paid or to be paid under paragraph (e)(1) of this clause; 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The cost of settling and paying termination settlement proposals under terminated subcontracts that are properly chargeable to the terminated portion of the contract if not included in subdivision (e)(2)(i) of this clause; and 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) A sum, as profit on subdivision (e)(2)(i) of this clause, determined by the Contracting Officer under 49.202 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, in effect on the date of this contract, to be fair and reasonable. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) The reasonable costs of settlement of the work terminated, including -  
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Accounting, legal, clerical, and other expenses reasonably necessary for the preparation of termination settlement proposals and supporting data; 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The termination and settlement of subcontracts (excluding the amounts of such settlements); and 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) The cost principles and procedures of part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, in effect on the date of this contract, shall govern all costs claimed, agreed to, or determined under this clause. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(g) The Carrier shall have the right of appeal, under the Disputes clause, from any determination made by the Contracting Officer under paragraph (c), (e), or (i) of this clause, except that if the Carrier failed to submit the termination settlement proposal or request for equitable adjustment within the time provided in paragraph (c) or (i), respectively, and failed to request a time extension, there is no right of appeal. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(h) In arriving at the amount due the Carrier under this clause, there shall be deducted -  
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) All unliquidated advance or other payments to the Carrier under the terminated portion of this contract; 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Any claim which the Government has against the Carrier under this contract; and 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(i) If the termination is partial, the Carrier may file a proposal with the Contracting Officer for an equitable adjustment of the price(s) of the continued portion of the contract. The Contracting Officer shall make any equitable adjustment agreed upon. Any proposal by the Carrier for an equitable adjustment under this clause shall be requested within 90 days from the effective date of termination unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(j)(1) The Government may, under the terms and conditions it prescribes, make partial payments and payments against costs incurred by the Carrier for the terminated portion of the contract, if the Contracting Officer believes the total of these payments will not exceed the amount to which the Carrier will be entitled. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) If the total payments exceed the amount finally determined to be due, the Carrier shall repay the excess to the Government upon demand, together with interest computed at the rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury under 50 U.S.C. App. 1215(b)(2). Interest shall be computed for the period from the date the excess payment is received by the Carrier to the date the excess is repaid. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(k) Unless otherwise provided in this contract or by statute, the Carrier shall maintain all records and documents relating to the terminated portion of this contract for 3 years after final settlement. This includes all books and other evidence bearing on the Carrier's costs and expenses under this contract. The Carrier shall make these records and documents available to the Government, at the Carrier's office, at all reasonable times, without any direct charge. If approved by the Contracting Officer, photographs, microphotographs, or other authentic reproductions may be maintained instead of original records and documents.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[62 FR 47579, Sept. 10, 1997]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
