<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e10096"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1552.237-72</ph> Key personnel.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e4334"
                  href="48_6.0.1.6.31.1.1.1.dita#d1e4334">1537.110</xref>, insert the following contract clause when it is necessary for contract performance to identify Contractor key personnel.
</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">
                                 <p outputclass="HD1" class="- topic/p ">Key Personnel (APR 1984)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The Contractor shall assign to this contract the following key personnel:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP-DASH" class="- topic/p ">
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) During the first ninety (90) days of performance, the Contractor shall make no substitutions of key personnel unless the substitution is necessitated by illness, death, or termination of employment. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer within 15 calendar days after the occurrence of any of these events and provide the information required by paragraph (c) of this clause. After the initial 90-day period, the Contractor shall submit the information required by paragraph (c) to the Contracting Officer at least 15 days prior to making any permanent substitutions. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The Contractor shall provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitutions, complete resumes for the proposed substitutes, and any additional information requested by the Contracting Officer. Proposed substitutes should have comparable qualifications to those of the persons being replaced. The Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor within 15 calendar days after receipt of all required information of the decision on substitutions. This clause will be modified to reflect any approved changes of key personnel.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)
</p>
         
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
