<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="d1e6914"
            outputclass="Section"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">1552.215-75</ph> Past performance information.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="P" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="d1e2005"
                  href="48_6.0.1.3.13.1.1.1.dita#d1e2005">1515.209</xref>(c), insert the following clause: 
</p>
         <note class="- topic/note ">
                                 <p outputclass="HD1" class="- topic/p ">Past Performance Information (OCT 2000) 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) Offerors shall submit the information requested below as part of their proposal for both the offeror and any proposed subcontractors for subcontracts expected to exceed $ * . The information may be submitted prior to other parts of the proposal in order to assist the Government in reducing the evaluation period. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Offerors shall submit a list of all or at least * contracts and subcontracts completed in the last * years, and all contracts and subcontracts currently in process, which are similar in nature to this requirement. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The contracts and subcontracts listed may include those entered into with Federal, State and local governments, and commercial businesses, which are of similar scope, magnitude, relevance, and complexity to the requirement which is described in the RFP. Include the following information for each contract and subcontract listed: 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) Name of contracting activity. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Contract number. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) Contract title. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Contract type. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Brief description of contract or subcontract and relevance to this requirement. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Total contract value. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g) Period of performance. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h) Contracting officer, telephone number, and E-mail address (if available). 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(i) Program manager/project officer, telephone number, and E-mail address (if available). 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(j) Administrative Contracting officer, if different from (h) above, telephone number, and E-mail address (if available). 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(k) List of subcontractors (if applicable). 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(l) Compliance with subcontracting plan goals for small disadvantaged business concerns, monetary targets for small disadvantaged business participation, and the notifications submitted under FAR 19.1202-4 (b), if applicable. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) Offerors should not provide general information on their performance on the identified contracts and subcontracts. General performance information will be obtained from the references. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Offerors may provide information on problems encountered and corrective actions taken on the identified contracts and subcontracts. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) References that may be contacted by the Government include the contracting officer, program manager/project officer, or the administrative contracting officer identified above. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) If no response is received from a reference, the Government will make an attempt to contact another reference identified by the offeror, to contact a reference not identified by the offeror, or to complete the evaluation with those references who responded. The Government shall consider the information provided by the references, and may also consider information obtained from other sources, when evaluating an offeror's past performance. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) Attempts to obtain responses from references will generally not go beyond two telephonic messages and/or written requests from the Government, unless otherwise stated in the solicitation. The Government is not obligated to contact all of the references identified by the offeror. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) If negative feedback is received from an offeror's reference, the Government will compare the negative response to the responses from the offeror's other references to note differences. A score will be assigned appropriately to the offeror based on the information. The offeror will be given the opportunity to address adverse past performance information obtained from references on which the offeror has not had a previous opportunity to comment, if that information makes a difference in the Government's decision to include the offeror in or exclude the offeror from the competitive range. Any past performance deficiency or significant weakness will be discussed with offerors in the competitive range during discussions. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Offerors must send Client Authorization Letters (see Section J of the solicitation) to each reference listed in their proposal to assist in the timely processing of the past performance evaluation. Offerors are encouraged to consolidate requests whenever possible (i.e., if the same reference has several contracts, send that reference a single notice citing all applicable contracts). Offerors may send Client Authorization Letters electronically to references with copies forwarded to the contracting officer. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) If an offeror has no relevant past performance history, an offeror must affirmatively state that it possesses no relevant past performance history. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Client Authorization Letters should be mailed or E-mailed to individual references no later than five (5) working days after proposal submission. The offeror should forward a copy of the Client Authorization Letter to the contracting officer simultaneously with mailing to references. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Each offeror may describe any quality awards or certifications that indicate the offeror possesses a high-quality process for developing and producing the product or service required. Such awards or certifications include, for example, the Malcolm Baldrige Quality Award, other Government quality awards, and private sector awards or certifications. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Identify the segment of the company (one division or the entire company) which received the award or certification. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Describe when the award or certification was bestowed. If the award or certification is over three years old, present evidence that the qualifications still apply. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g) Past performance information will be used for both responsibility determinations and as an evaluation factor for award. The Past Performance Questionnaire identified in section J will be used to collect information on an offeror's performance under existing and prior contracts/subcontracts for products or services similar in scope, magnitude, relevance, and complexity to this requirement in order to evaluate offerors consistent with the past performance evaluation factor set forth in section M. References other than those identified by the offeror may be contacted by the Government and used in the evaluation of the offeror's past performance. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h) Any information collected concerning an offeror's past performance will be maintained in the official contract file. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(i) In accordance with FAR 15.305 (a) (2) (iv), offerors with no relevant past performance history, or for whom information on past performance is not available, will be evaluated neither favorably nor unfavorably on past performance.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="FP" class="- topic/p ">* Indicates that the contracting officer inserts applicable dollar figure and number.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause) 
</p>
         
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
