<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="d1e15369" outputclass="Section">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1652.229-70</ph> Taxes - Foreign Negotiated benefits contracts.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="P">As prescribed in section 1629.402, the following clause shall be inserted in all FEHBP contracts performed outside the United States, its possessions, and Puerto Rico:
</p>
         <note>
                                 <p outputclass="HD1">Taxes - Foreign Negotiated Benefits Contracts (JAN 1998)
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(a) To the extent that this contract provides for performing services outside the United States, its possessions, and Puerto Rico, this clause applies in lieu of any Federal, State, and local taxes clause of the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(b) “Contract date,” as used in this clause, means the effective date of this contract or modification.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P">“Country concerned,” as used in this clause, means any country, other than the United States, its possessions, and Puerto Rico, in which expenditures under this contract are made. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P">“Tax” and “taxes,” as used in this clause, include fees and charges for doing business that are levied by the government of the country concerned or by its political subdivisions. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P">“All applicable taxes and duties,” as used in this clause, means all taxes and duties, in effect on the contract date, that the taxing authority is imposing and collecting on the transactions covered by this contract, pursuant to written ruling or regulation in effect on the contract date. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P">“After-imposed tax,” as used in this clause, means any new or increased tax or duty, or tax that was exempted or excluded on the contract date but whose exemption was later revoked or reduced during the contract period, other than excepted tax, on the transactions covered by this contract that the Carrier is required to pay or bear as the result of legislative, judicial, or administrative action taking effect after the contract date. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P">“After-relieved tax,” as used in this clause, means any amount of tax or duty, other than an excepted tax, that would otherwise have been payable on the transactions covered by this contract, but which the Carrier is not required to pay or bear, or for which the Carrier obtains a refund, as the result of legislative, judicial, or administrative action taking effect after the contract date. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="P">“Excepted tax,” as used in this clause, means social security or other employment taxes, net income and franchise taxes, excess profits taxes, capital stock taxes, transportation taxes, unemployment compensation taxes, and property taxes. “Excepted tax” does not include gross income taxes levied on or measured by sales or receipts from sales covered by this contract, or any tax assessed on the Carrier's possession of, interest in, or use of property, title to which is in the U.S. Government. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) Unless otherwise provided in this contract, the contract price includes all applicable taxes and duties, except taxes and duties that the Government of the United States and the government of the country concerned have agreed shall not be applicable to expenditures in such country by or on behalf of the United States. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) The contract price shall be increased by the amount of any after-imposed tax or of any tax or duty specifically excluded from the contract price by a provision of this contract that the Carrier is required to pay or bear, including any interest or penalty, if the Carrier states in writing that the contract price does not include any contingency for such tax and if liability for such tax, interest, or penalty was not incurred through the Carrier's fault, negligence, or failure to follow instructions of the Contracting Officer or to comply with the provisions of paragraph (i) below. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any after-relieved tax, including any interest or penalty. The Government of the United States shall be entitled to interest received by the Carrier incident to a refund of taxes to the extent that such interest was earned after the Carrier was paid by the Government of the United States for such taxes. The Government of the United States shall be entitled to repayment of any penalty refunded to the Carrier to the extent that the penalty was paid by the Government. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(f) The contract price shall be decreased by the amount of any tax or duty, other than an excepted tax, that was included in the contract and that the Carrier is required to pay or bear, or does not obtain a refund of, through the Carrier's fault, negligence, or failure to follow instructions of the Contracting Officer or to comply with the provisions of paragraph (i) below. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(g) No adjustment shall be made in the contract price under this clause unless the amount of the adjustment exceeds $250. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(h) If the Carrier obtains a reduction in tax liability under the United States Internal Revenue Code (Title 26, U.S. Code) because of the payment of any tax or duty that either was included in the contract price or was the basis of an increase in the contract price, the amount of the reduction shall be paid or credited to the Government of the United States as the Contracting Officer directs. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(i) The Carrier shall take all reasonable action to obtain exemption from or refund of any taxes or duties, including interest or penalty, from which the United States Government, the Carrier, any subcontractor, or the transactions covered by this contract are exempt under the laws of the country concerned or its political subdivisions or which the governments of the United States and of the country concerned have agreed shall not be applicable to expenditures in such country by or on behalf of the United States. 
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(j) The Carrier shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer of all matters relating to taxes or duties that reasonably may be expected to result in either an increase or decrease in the contract price and shall take appropriate action as the Contracting Officer directs. The contract price shall be equitably adjusted to cover the costs of action taken by the Carrier at the direction of the Contracting Officer, including any interest, penalty, and reasonable attorneys' fees.</p>
                              </note>
         <p outputclass="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p outputclass="CITA">[62 FR 47577, Sept. 10, 1997]


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
