<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
	<concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1552_242_72_T48_6018371182">
		<title class="- topic/title ">
			<ph props="autonumber">1552.242-72</ph> Financial administrative contracting officer.</title>
		<conbody>
			<p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="Section_1542_705_T48_601733112" href="Section_1542_705_T48_601733112.dita#Section_1542_705_T48_601733112">1542.705</xref> (b), insert the following clause:</p>
			<p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Financial Administrative Contracting Officer (OCT 2000)</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(a) A Financial Administrative Contracting Officer (FACO) is responsible for performing certain post-award functions related to the financial aspects of this contract when the EPA is the cognizant federal agency. These functions include the following duties:</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(1) 	Review the contractor's compensation structure and insurance plan.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(2) Negotiate advance agreements applicable to treatment of costs and to Independent Research &amp; Development/Bid and Proposal costs.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(3) Negotiate changes to interim billing rates and establish final indirect cost rates and billing rates.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(4) Prepare findings of fact and issue decisions related to financial matters under the Disputes clause, if appropriate.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(5) In connection with Cost Accounting Standards:</p>
			<p outputclass="List3">(A) Determine the adequacy of the contractor's disclosure statements;</p>
			<p outputclass="List3">(B) Determine whether the disclosure statements are in compliance with Cost Accounting Standards and FAR part 31;</p>
			<p outputclass="List3">(C) Determine the contractor's compliance with Cost Accounting Standards and disclosure statements, if applicable; and </p>
			<p outputclass="List3">(D) Negotiate price adjustments and execute supplemental agreements under the Cost Accounting Standards clauses at FAR 52.230-3, 52.230-4, and 52.230-5.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(6) Review, approve or disapprove, and maintain surveillance of the contractor's purchasing system.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(7) Perform surveillance, resolve issues, and establish any necessary agreements related to the contractor's cost/schedule control system, including travel policies/procedures, allocation and cost charging methodology, timekeeping and labor distribution policies and procedures, subcontract payment practices, matters concerning relationships between the contractor and its affiliates and subsidiaries, and consistency between bid and accounting classifications.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(8) Review, resolve issues, and establish any necessary agreements related to the contractor's estimating system.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(b) The FACO shall consult with the contracting officer whenever necessary or appropriate and shall forward a copy of all agreements/decisions to the contracting officer upon execution.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(c) The FACO for this contract is: </p>
			<p xtrc="FP-DASH"> </p>
			<p xtrc="FP-DASH"> </p>
			<p xtrc="FP-DASH"/>
			<p outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>