<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
	<concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1552_208_70_T48_601837114">
		<title class="- topic/title ">
			<ph props="autonumber">1552.208-70</ph> Printing.</title>
		<conbody>
			<p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="Section_1508_870_T48_60128111" href="Section_1508_870_T48_60128111.dita#Section_1508_870_T48_60128111">1508.870</xref>, insert the following clause:</p>
			<p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Printing (SEP 2012)</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> “Printing” is the process of composition, plate making, presswork, binding and microform; or the end items produced by such processes and equipment. Printing services include newsletter production and periodicals which are prohibited under EPA contracts.</p>
			<p xtrc="P">“Composition” applies to the setting of type by hot-metal casting, photo typesetting, or electronic character generating devices for the purpose of producing camera copy, negatives, a plate or image to be used in the production of printing or microform.</p>
			<p xtrc="P">“Camera copy” (or “camera-ready copy”) is a final document suitable for printing/duplication.</p>
			<p xtrc="P">“Desktop Publishing” is a method of composition using computers with the final output or generation of a camera copy done by a color inkjet or color laser printer. This is not considered “printing.” However, if the output from desktop publishing is being sent to a typesetting device (i.e., Linotronic) with camera copy being produced in either paper or negative format, these services are considered “printing.”</p>
			<p xtrc="P">“Microform” is any product produced in a miniaturized image format, for mass or general distribution and as a substitute for conventionally printed material. Microform services are classified as printing services and include microfiche and microfilm. The contractor may make up to two sets of microform files for archival purposes at the end of the contract period of performance.</p>
			<p xtrc="P">“Duplication” means the making of copies on photocopy machines employing electrostatic, thermal, or other processes without using an intermediary such as a negative or plate.</p>
			<p xtrc="P">“Requirement” means an individual photocopying task. (There may be multiple requirements under a Work Assignment or Delivery Order. Each requirement would be subject to the duplication limitation of 5,000 copies of one page or 25,000 copies of multiple pages in the aggregate per requirement).</p>
			<p xtrc="P">“Incidental” means a draft and/or proofed document (not a final document) that is not prohibited from printing under EPA contracts.</p>
			<p props="runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Prohibition.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(1) 	The contractor shall not engage in, nor subcontract for, any printing in connection with the performance of work under this contract. Duplication of more than 5,000 copies of one page or more than 25,000 copies of multiple pages in the aggregate per requirement constitutes printing. The intent of the printing limitation is to eliminate duplication of final documents.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(2) In compliance with EPA Order 2200.4a, EPA Publication Review Procedure, the Office of Communications, Education, and Media Relations is responsible for the review of materials generated under a contract published or issued by the Agency under a contract intended for release to the public.</p>
			<p props="runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Affirmative Requirements.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(1) 	Unless otherwise directed by the contracting officer, the contractor shall use double-sided copying to produce any progress report, draft report or final report.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(2) Unless otherwise directed by the contracting officer, the contractor shall use recycled paper for reports delivered to the Agency which meet the minimum content standards for paper and paper products as set forth in EPA's Web site for the Comprehensive Procurement Guidelines at: <i>http://www.epa.gov/cpg/.</i>
			</p>
			<p props="runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Permitted Contractor Activities.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(1) 	The prohibitions contained in paragraph (b) do not preclude writing, editing, or preparing manuscript copy, or preparing related illustrative material to a final document (camera-ready copy) using desktop publishing.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(2) The contractor may perform a requirement involving the duplication of less than 5,000 copies of only one page, or less than 25,000 copies of multiple pages in the aggregate, using one color (black), such pages shall not exceed the maximum image size of 10 3/4 by 14 1/4 inches, or 11 by 17 paper stock. Duplication services below these thresholds are not considered printing. If performance of the contract will require duplication in excess of these thresholds, contractors must immediately notify the contracting officer in writing and a waiver must be obtained. Only the Joint Committee on Printing has the authority to grant waivers to the printing requirements. All Agency waiver requests must be coordinated with EPA's Headquarters Printing Management Team, Facilities and Services Division, and with the Office of General Counsel. Duplication services of “incidentals” in excess of the thresholds are allowable.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(3) The contractor may perform a requirement involving the multi-color duplication of no more than 100 pages in the aggregate using color copier technology, such pages shall not exceed the maximum image size of 10 3/4 by 14 1/4 inches, or 11 by 17 paper stock. Duplication services below these thresholds are not considered printing. If performance of the contract will require duplication in excess of these limits, contractors must immediately notify the contracting officer in writing and a waiver must be obtained. Only the Joint Committee on Printing has the authority to grant waivers to the printing requirements. All Agency waiver requests must be coordinated with EPA's Headquarters Printing Management Team, Facilities and Services Division, and with the Office of General Counsel.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(4) The contractor may perform the duplication of no more than a total of 500 units of an electronic information storage device (e.g., CD-ROMs, DVDs, thumb drives <sup>1</sup>) (including labeling and packaging) per work assignment or task order/delivery order per contract year. Duplication services below these thresholds are not considered printing. If performance of the contract will require duplication in excess of these thresholds, contractors must immediately notify the contracting officer in writing and a waiver must be obtained. Only the Joint Committee on Printing has the authority to grant waivers to the printing requirements. All Agency waiver requests must be coordinated with EPA's Headquarters Printing Management Team, Facilities and Services Division, and with the Office of General Counsel.</p>
			<p outputclass="Normal">
				<sup>1</sup> Pursuant to the July 2008 guidance <i>Promotional Communications for EPA,</i> a thumb drive can be used as a promotional item, but it also must be an information medium in itself. Namely, it must have substantive EPA information already loaded into the drive. Due to its intrinsic material value, it may not be used simply or primarily to display an EPA message on the exterior of the drive.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Violations.</i> The contractor may not engage in, nor subcontract for, any printing in connection with the performance of work under the contract. The cost of any printing services in violation of this clause will be disallowed, or not accepted by the Government.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Flowdown Clause.</i> The contractor shall include in each subcontract which may involve a requirement for any printing/duplicating/copying a provision substantially the same as this clause.</p>
			<p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) </p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>