<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
	<concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1552_223_72_T48_6018371151">
		<title class="- topic/title ">
			<ph props="autonumber">1552.223-72</ph> Use and care of laboratory animals.</title>
		<conbody>
			<p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly" class="- topic/xref " base="Section_1523_303_72_T48_601419114" href="Section_1523_303_72_T48_601419114.dita#Section_1523_303_72_T48_601419114">1523.303-72</xref>, insert the following clause in all contracts involving the use of animals in testing, research or training:</p>
			<p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">Use and Care of Laboratory Animals March 2015</p>
			<p props="runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Use of laboratory animals.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(1) 	Before undertaking performance of any contract involving the use of laboratory animals, the contractor shall register with the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States in accordance with the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States in accordance with the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (AWA), codified at 7 U.S.C. 2131 <i>et seq.</i> and promulgated at 9 CFR parts 1-4. The contractor shall furnish evidence of such registration to the contracting officer.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(2) The contractor shall acquire animals used in research and development programs from a dealer licensed by the Secretary of Agriculture, or from exempted sources in accordance with 9 CFR 2.25-2.28. Animals shall not be acquired from any random source Class B dealer.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(3) The contractor may request registration of his/her facility and a current listing of licensed dealers from the Regional Office of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), USDA, for the region in which his/her research facility is located. The location of the appropriate APHIS Regional Office as well as information concerning this program may be obtained at <i>http://www.aphis.usda.gov/contact_us/.</i>
			</p>
			<p props="runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Care of laboratory animals.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(1) 	In the care of any live animals used or intended for use in the performance of this contract, the contractor shall adhere to:</p>
			<p outputclass="List3">(i) The standards and practices incorporated in the <i>Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals,</i> prepared by the Institute of Laboratory Animal Research of the National Research Council of the National Academies (ILAR/NRC),</p>
			<p outputclass="List3">(ii) The Animal Welfare Regulations found in 9 CFR parts 1-4, and</p>
			<p outputclass="List3">(iii) The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Public Health Service (PHS) Policy on the Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(2) In case of conflict between standards, the higher standard shall be used.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2">(3) The contractor's reports on portions of the contract in which animals were used shall contain a certificate stating that the animals were cared for in accordance with the principles enunciated in the <i>Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals,</i> prepared by the ILAR/NRC, and/or in the Animal Welfare Regulations found in 9 CFR parts 1-4.</p>
			<p outputclass="Endofclause">(End of clause)</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>