<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_1506_302_5_T48_60127211">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">1506.302-5</ph> Authorized or required by statute.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Authority.</i> Section 109(e) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) is cited as authority.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Application.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contracting officer may use other than full and open competition to acquire the services of experts for use in preparing or prosecuting a civil or criminal action under SARA whether or not the expert is expected to testify at trial. The contracting officer need not provide any written justification (e.g., under FAR 6.303, 8.405-6, or 13.501) for the use of other than full and open competitive procedures when acquiring expert services under the authority of section 109(e) of SARA. The contracting officer shall document the official contract file when using this authority.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contracting officer shall give notice to the Agency's Competition Advocate whenever a contract award is made using other than full and open competitition under this authority. The notice shall contain a copy of the contract and the summary of negotiations.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
