<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e20204" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber">225.7017-3</ph> EXCEPTIONS.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p class="- topic/p ">DoD requires the contractor to utilize domestic photovoltaic devices in covered contracts that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, with the following exceptions:</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Qualifying country.  </i>Qualifying country photovoltaic devices may be utilized in any covered contract, because 225.103(a)(i)(A) provides an exception to the Buy American statute for products of qualifying countries, as defined in 225.003. </p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Buy American—unreasonable cost.</i>For a covered contract that utilizes photovoltaic devices valued at less than $180,000, the exception for unreasonable cost may apply (see FAR 25.103(c).  If the cost of a foreign photovoltaic device plus 50 percent is less than the cost of a domestic photovoltaic device, then the foreign photovoltaic device may be utilized.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Trade agreements.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Free Trade Agreements.  </i>For a covered contract that utilizes photovoltaic devices valued at $25,000 or more, photovoltaic devices may be utilized from a country covered under the acquisition by a Free Trade Agreement, depending upon dollar threshold (see FAR subpart 25.4).</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">World Trade Organization—Government Procurement Agreement</i>.  For covered contracts that utilize photovoltaic devices that are valued at $180,000 or more, only U.S.-made photovoltaic devices, designated country photovoltaic devices, or qualifying country photovoltaic devices may be utilized. </p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>