<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e10523" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber">215.404-71</ph>-4 FACILITIES CAPITAL EMPLOYED.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Description</i>.  This factor focuses on encouraging and rewarding capital investment in facilities that benefit DoD.  It recognizes both the facilities capital that the contractor will employ in contract performance and the contractor's commitment to improving productivity.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract facilities capital estimates</i>.  The contracting officer shall estimate the facilities capital cost of money and capital employed using—</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  An analysis of the appropriate Forms CASB-CMF and cost of money factors (48 CFR 9904.414 and FAR 31.205-10); and</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  DD Form 1861, Contract Facilities Capital Cost of Money.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Use of DD Form 1861</i>.  See PGI 215.404-71-4(c) for obtaining field pricing support for preparing DD Form 1861.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Purpose</i>.  The DD Form 1861 provides a means of linking the Form CASB-CMF and DD Form 1547, Record of Weighted Guidelines Application.  It—</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Enables the contracting officer to differentiate profit objectives for various types of assets (land, buildings, equipment).  The procedure is similar to applying overhead rates to appropriate overhead allocation bases to determine contract overhead costs.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Is designed to record and compute the contract facilities capital cost of money and capital employed which is carried forward to DD Form 1547.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Completion instructions</i>.  Complete a DD Form 1861 only after evaluating the contractor's cost proposal, establishing cost of money factors, and establishing a prenegotiation objective on cost.  Complete the form as follows:</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  List overhead pools and direct-charging service centers (if used) in the same structure as they appear on the contractor's cost proposal and Form CASB-CMF.  The structure and allocation base units-of-measure must be compatible on all three displays.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Extract appropriate contract overhead allocation base data, by year, from the evaluated cost breakdown or prenegotiation cost objective and list against each overhead pool and direct-charging service center.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  Multiply each allocation base by its corresponding cost of money factor to get the facilities capital cost of money estimated to be incurred each year.  The sum of these products represents the estimated contract facilities capital cost of money for the year's effort.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv)  Total contract facilities cost of money is the sum of the yearly amounts.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(v)  Since the facilities capital cost of money factors reflect the applicable cost of money rate in Column 1 of Form CASB-CMF, divide the contract cost of money by that same rate to determine the contract facilities capital employed.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Preaward facilities capital applications</i>.  To establish cost and price objectives, apply the facilities capital cost of money and capital employed as follows:</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost of Money.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Cost Objective</i>.  Use the imputed facilities capital cost of money, with normal, booked costs, to establish a cost objective or the target cost when structuring an incentive type contract.  Do not adjust target costs established at the outset even though actual cost of money rates become available during the period of contract performance.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Profit Objective</i>.  When measuring the contractor's effort for the purpose of establishing a prenegotiation profit objective, restrict the cost base to normal, booked costs.  Do not include cost of money as part of the cost base.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>