<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e3696" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber">208.602-70</ph>  ACQUISITION OF ITEMS FOR WHICH FPI HAS A SIGNIFICANT MARKET SHARE.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Scope</i>.  This subsection implements Section 827 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Pub. L. 110-181).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Definition</i>.  “Item for which FPI has a significant market share,” as used in this subsection, means an item for which FPI’s share of the DoD market for the federal supply class including that item is greater than 5 percent, as determined by DoD in consultation with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy.  A list of the federal supply classes of items for which FPI has a significant market share is maintained at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/cpic/cp/specific_policy_areas.html#federal_prison.  </p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Policy</i>.  </p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  When acquiring an item for which FPI has a significant market share—</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Acquire the item using—</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Competitive procedures (e.g., the procedures in FAR 6.102, the set-aside procedures in FAR Subpart 19.5, or competition conducted in accordance with FAR Part 13); or </p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The fair opportunity procedures in FAR 16.505, if placing an order under a multiple award delivery-order contract; and</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Include FPI in the solicitation process, consider a timely offer from FPI, and make an award in accordance with the policy at FAR 8.602(a)(4)(ii) through (v).</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  When acquiring an item for which FPI does not have a significant market share, acquire the item in accordance with the policy at FAR 8.602.</p>
			<p outputclass="Topic_BlueText" class="- topic/p ">
				<ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">208.606 </ph> Evaluating FPI performance.</p>
			<p outputclass="LightBlueText" class="- topic/p ">See DoD Class Deviation 2013-O0018, Past Performance Evaluation Requirements, issued on September 24, 2013.  This class deviation requires past performance reporting for contracts awarded under FAR 8.6, Acquisition from Federal Prison Industries, Inc., when the thresholds in this deviation are exceeded.  This deviation is effective until incorporated in the DFARS or rescinded.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>