<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e24344" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber">227.7203-9</ph> COPYRIGHT.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Copyright license.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  The clause at 252.227-7014, Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer Software Documentation, requires a contractor to grant, or obtain for the Government license rights which permit the Government to reproduce the software or documentation, distribute copies, perform or display the software or documentation and, through the right to modify data, prepare derivative works.  The extent to which the Government, and others acting on its behalf, may exercise these rights varies for each of the standard data rights licenses obtained under the clause.  When non-standard license rights in computer software or computer software documentation will be negotiated, negotiate the extent of the copyright license concurrent with negotiations for the data rights license.  Do not negotiate copyright licenses for computer software that provide less rights than the standard restricted rights in computer software license.  For computer software documentation, do not negotiate a copyright license that provides less rights than the standard limited rights in technical data license.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  The clause at 252.227-7013, Rights in Technical Data--Noncommercial Items, does not permit a contractor to incorporate a third party's copyrighted software into a deliverable software item unless the contractor has obtained an appropriate license for the Government and, when applicable, others acting on the Government's behalf, or has obtained the contracting officer's written approval to do so.  Grant approval to use third party copyrighted software in which the Government will not receive a copyright license only when the Government's requirements cannot be satisfied without the third party material or when the use of the third party material will result in cost savings to the Government which outweigh the lack of a copyright license.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">  Copyright considerations--special works</i>.  See 227.7205 for copyright considerations when acquiring special works.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>