<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e25096" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber">229.402-70</ph>  ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  Use the basic or the alternate of the clause at 252.229-7001, Tax Relief, in solicitations and contracts when a contract will be awarded to a foreign concern for performance in a foreign country.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Use the basic clause in solicitations and contracts when the contract will be performed in a foreign country other than Germany.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Use the alternate I clause in solicitations and contracts when the contract will be performed in Germany.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Use the clause at 252.229-7002, Customs Exemptions (Germany), in solicitations and contracts requiring the import of U.S. manufactured products into Germany.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)(1)  Use the clause at 252.229-7003, Tax Exemptions (Italy), in solicitations and contracts when contract performance will be in Italy.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Use the provision at 252.229-7012, Tax Exemptions (Italy)—Representation, in solicitations that contain the clause at 252.229-7003, Tax Exemptions (Italy).  If the solicitation includes the provision at FAR 52.204-7, do not separately list 252.229-7012 in the solicitation.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)  Use the clause at 252.229-7004, Status of Contractor as a Direct Contractor (Spain), in solicitations and contracts requiring the import into Spain of supplies for construction, development, maintenance, or operation of Spanish-American installations and facilities.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) (1)  Use the clause at 252.229-7005, Tax Exemptions (Spain), in solicitations and contracts when contract performance will be in Spain.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Use the provision at 252.229-7013, Tax Exemptions (Spain)—Representation, in solicitations that contain the clause at 252.229-7005, Tax Exemptions (Spain).  If the solicitation includes the provision at FAR 52.204-7, do not separately list 252.229-7013 in the solicitation.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f)  Use the clause at 252.229-7006, Value Added Tax Exclusion (United Kingdom), in solicitations and contracts when contract performance will be in the United Kingdom.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g)  Use the clause at 252.229-7007, Verification of United States Receipt of Goods, in solicitations and contracts when contract performance will be in the United Kingdom.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h)  Use the clause at 252.229-7008, Relief from Import Duty (United Kingdom), in solicitations issued and contracts awarded in the United Kingdom.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Use the clause at 252.229-7009, Relief from Customs Duty and Value Added Tax on Fuel (Passenger Vehicles) (United Kingdom), in solicitations issued and contracts awarded in the United Kingdom for fuels (gasoline or diesel) and lubricants used in passenger vehicles (excluding taxis).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(j)  Use the clause at 252.229-7010, Relief from Customs Duty on Fuel (United Kingdom), in solicitations issued and contracts awarded in the United Kingdom that require the use of fuels (gasoline or diesel) and lubricants in taxis or vehicles other than passenger vehicles.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(k)  Use the clause at 252.229-7014, Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial items, with performance in Afghanistan, unless the clause at 252.229-7015 is used.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(l)  Use the clause at 252.229-7015, Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan (North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement), instead of the clause at 252.229-7014, Taxes—Foreign Contracts in Afghanistan, in solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial items, with performance in Afghanistan awarded on behalf of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), which are governed by the NATO Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), if approval from the Director, Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy, Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, has been obtained prior to each use.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>