<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e30411" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title ">239.7411 CONTRACT CLAUSES.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  In addition to other appropriate FAR and DFARS clauses, use the following clauses in solicitations, contracts, and basic agreements for telecommunications services.  Modify the clauses only if necessary to meet the requirements of a governmental regulatory agency.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.239-7002</ph>, Access.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.239-7004</ph>, Orders for Facilities and Services.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.239-7006</ph>, Tariff Information.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.239-7007</ph>, Cancellation or Termination of Orders.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Use the following clauses in solicitations, contracts, and basic agreements for telecommunications services when the acquisition includes or may include special construction.  Modify the clauses only if necessary to meet the requirements of a governmental regulatory agency—</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.239-7011</ph>, Special Construction and Equipment Charges; and</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.239-7012</ph>, Title to Telecommunication Facilities and Equipment.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  Use the basic or alternate of the clause at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.239-7013</ph>, Term of Agreement and Continuation of Services, in basic agreements for telecommunications services.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Use the basic clause in basic agreements that do not supersede an existing basic agreement with the contractor. </p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Use the alternate I clause in basic agreements that supersede an existing basic agreement with the contractor.  Complete paragraph (c)(1) of the clause with the basic agreement number, date, and contacting office that issued the basic agreement being superseded.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)  Use the clause at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.239-7016</ph>, Telecommunications Security Equipment, Devices, Techniques, and Services, in solicitations and contracts when performance of a contract requires secure telecommunications.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>