<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e17568" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title ">225.504 (B)  IF THERE ARE NO DOMESTIC OFFERS, AWARD ON THE LOW OFFER (SEE EXAMPLE IN 225.504(1)).</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  If the low offer is a foreign offer that is exempt from application of the </p>
			<p class="- topic/p ">Buy American or Balance of Payments Program evaluation factor, award on that offer.  </p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(If the low offer is a qualifying country offer from a country listed at 225.872-1(b), execute a determination in accordance with 225.872-4).</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  If the low offer is a foreign offer that is not exempt from application of the Buy American or Balance of Payments Program evaluation factor, and there is another foreign offer that is exempt and is lower than the lowest domestic offer, award on the low foreign offer (see example in 225.504(2)).</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E)  Otherwise, apply the 50 percent evaluation factor to the low foreign offer.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">
				<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(1)</i>  If the price of the low domestic offer is less than the evaluated price of the low foreign offer, award on the low domestic offer (see example in 225.504(3)).</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">
				<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(2)</i>  If the evaluated price of the low foreign offer remains less than the low domestic offer, award on the low foreign offer (see example in 225.504(4)).</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  If price is not the determining factor, use the following procedures:</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  If there are domestic offers, apply the 50 percent Buy American or </p>
			<p class="- topic/p ">Balance of Payments Program evaluation factor to all foreign offers unless an exemption applies.</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Evaluate in accordance with the criteria of the solicitation.</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  If these procedures will not result in award on a domestic offer, re-evaluate offers without the 50 percent factor.  If this will result in award on an offer to which the Buy American statute or Balance of Payments Program applies, but evaluation in accordance with paragraph (c)(ii) of this section would result in award on a domestic offer, proceed with award only after execution of a determination in accordance with 225.103(a)(ii)(B), that domestic preference would be inconsistent with the public interest.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iv)  If the solicitation includes the provision at 252.225-7023, Preference for </p>
			<p class="- topic/p ">Products or Services from Afghanistan, use the evaluation procedures at 225.7703-3.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>