<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e10595" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title ">(2)  FACILITIES CAPITAL EMPLOYED.  ASSESS AND WEIGHT THE PROFIT OBJECTIVE FOR RISK ASSOCIATED WITH FACILITIES CAPITAL EMPLOYED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROFIT GUIDELINES AT 215.404-71-4.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Determination</i>.  The following extract from the DD Form 1547 has been annotated to explain the process.</p>
			<table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table ">
				<tgroup cols="5" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup ">
					<colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="11*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
					<colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="32*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
					<colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="19*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
					<colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colwidth="20*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
					<colspec colnum="5" colname="5" colwidth="17*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
					<tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
						<row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p "/>
								<p class="- topic/p ">Item</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Contractor Facilities Capital Employed</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Assigned Value</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Amount Employed</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Profit Objective</p>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">26.</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Land</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">27.</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Buildings</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">28.</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Equipment</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)</p>
							</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Select a value from the list in paragraph (f) of this subsection using the evaluation criteria in paragraph (g) of this subsection.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Use the allocated facilities capital attributable to land, buildings, and equipment, as derived in DD Form 1861, Contract Facilities Capital Cost of Money.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  In addition to the net book value of facilities capital employed, consider facilities capital that is part of a formal investment plan if the contractor submits reasonable evidence that—</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Achievable benefits to DoD will result from the investment; and</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The benefits of the investment are included in the forward pricing structure.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  If the value of intracompany transfers has been included in Block 20 at cost (i.e., excluding general and administrative (G&amp;A) expenses and profit), add to the contractor's allocated facilities capital, the allocated facilities capital attributable to the buildings and equipment of those corporate divisions supplying the intracompany transfers.  Do not make this addition if the value of intracompany transfers has been included in Block 20 at price (i.e., including G&amp;A expenses and profit).</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  Multiply (1) by (2).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Values:  Normal and designated ranges</i>.  </p>
			<table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table ">
				<tgroup cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="0" outputclass="Table" class="- topic/tgroup ">
					<colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colwidth="30*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
					<colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colwidth="30*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
					<colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colwidth="41*" class="- topic/colspec "/>
					<tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
						<row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Asset Type</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Normal Value</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Designated Range</p>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Land</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">0%</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row rowsep="1" class="- topic/row ">
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Buildings</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">0%</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">N/A</p>
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row rowsep="0" class="- topic/row ">
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">Equipment</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">17.5%</p>
							</entry>
							<entry class="- topic/entry ">
								<p class="- topic/p ">10% to 25%</p>
							</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Evaluation criteria</i>.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  In evaluating facilities capital employed, the contracting officer—</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Should relate the usefulness of the facilities capital to the goods or services being acquired under the prospective contract;</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Should analyze the productivity improvements and other anticipated industrial base enhancing benefits resulting from the facilities capital investment, including—</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  The economic value of the facilities capital, such as physical age, undepreciated value, idleness, and expected contribution to future defense needs; and</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The contractor's level of investment in defense related facilities as compared with the portion of the contractor's total business that is derived from DoD; and</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  Should consider any contractual provisions that reduce the contractor's risk of investment recovery, such as termination protection clauses and capital investment indemnification.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Above normal conditions</i>.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contracting officer may assign a higher than normal value if the facilities capital investment has direct, identifiable, and exceptional benefits.  Indicators are—</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  New investments in state-of-the-art technology that reduce acquisition cost or yield other tangible benefits such as improved product quality or accelerated deliveries; or</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Investments in new equipment for research and development applications.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  The contracting officer may assign a value significantly above normal when there are direct and measurable benefits in efficiency and significantly reduced acquisition costs on the effort being priced.  Maximum values apply only to those cases where the benefits of the facilities capital investment are substantially above normal.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Below normal conditions</i>.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  The contracting officer may assign a lower than normal value if the facilities capital investment has little benefit to DoD.  Indicators are—</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Allocations of capital apply predominantly to commercial item lines;</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Investments are for such things as furniture and fixtures, home or group level administrative offices, corporate aircraft and hangars, gymnasiums; or</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  Facilities are old or extensively idle.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  The contracting officer may assign a value significantly below normal when a significant portion of defense manufacturing is done in an environment characterized by outdated, inefficient, and labor-intensive capital equipment.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>