<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e18972" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title ">225.401 APPLIES.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Use the basic clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimatedvalue equals or exceeds $100,000, but is less than $180,000, except if the acquisition isof end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Use the alternate I clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $25,000, but is less than $80,317, except if theacquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  Use the alternate II clause in solicitations and contracts when theestimated value equals or exceeds $100,000, but is less than $180,000, and theacquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  Use the alternate III clause in solicitations and contracts when theestimated value equals or exceeds $25,000, but is less than $80,317, and theacquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E)  Use the alternate IV clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $80,317 but is less than $100,000, except if the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(F)  Use the alternate V clause in solicitations and contracts when the estimated value equals or exceeds $80,317 but is less than $100,000 and the acquisition is of end products in support of operations in Afghanistan.</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  Do not use the basic or an alternate of the clause in paragraph (10)(i) of this section if—</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  Purchase from foreign sources is restricted (see 225.401(a)(2)), unless the contracting officer anticipates a waiver of the restriction;</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Acquiring information technology that is a commercial item, using fiscal year 2004 or subsequent funds (Section 535 of Division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 (Pub. L. 108-199), and the same provision in subsequent appropriations acts); or</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  Using a procedure specified in 225.7703-1(a).</p>
			<p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii)  The acquisition of eligible and noneligible products under the same contract may result in the application of a Free Trade Agreement to only some of the items acquired.  In such case, indicate in the Schedule those items covered by the Buy American–Free Trade Agreements–Balance of Payments Program clause.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>