<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e725" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title ">203.070 REPORTING OF VIOLATIONS AND SUSPECTED VIOLATIONS.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p class="- topic/p ">Report violations and suspected violations of the following requirements in accordance with 209.406-3 or 209.407-3 and DoDD 7050.5, Coordination of Remedies for Fraud and Corruption Related to Procurement Activities:</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  Certificate of Independent Price Determination (FAR 3.103).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Procurement integrity (FAR 3.104).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  Gratuities clause (FAR 3.203).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)  Antitrust laws (FAR 3.303).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e)  Covenant Against Contingent Fees (FAR 3.405).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f)  Kickbacks (FAR 3.502).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g)  Prohibitions on persons convicted of defense-related contract felonies (203.570).</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>