<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e32046" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber">243.204-70</ph>-4 LIMITATIONS ON OBLIGATIONS.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  The Government shall not obligate more than 50 percent of the not-to-exceed price before definitization.  However, if a contractor submits a qualifying proposal before 50 percent of the not-to-exceed price has been obligated by the Government, the limitation on obligations before definitization may be increased to no more than 75 percent (see <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">232.102-70</ph> for coverage on provisional delivery payments).</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Obligations should be consistent with the contractor’s requirements for the undefinitized period.</p>
			<p class="- topic/p ">Exceptions.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  The limitations in <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">243.204-70-2</ph>, <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">243.204-70-3</ph>, and <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">243.204-70-4</ph> do not apply to unpriced change orders for the purchase of initial spares.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  The limitations in <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">243.204-70-4</ph>(a) do not apply to unpriced change orders for ship construction and ship repair.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  The head of the agency may waive the limitations in <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">243.204-70-2</ph>, <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">243.204-70-3</ph>, and <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">243.204-70-4</ph> for unpriced change orders if the head of the agency determines that the waiver is necessary to support—</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  A contingency operation; or</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  A humanitarian or peacekeeping operation.</p>
			<p class="- topic/p ">Allowable profit.</p>
			<p class="- topic/p ">When the final price of an unpriced change order is negotiated after a substantial portion of the required performance has been completed, the head of the contracting activity shall ensure the profit allowed reflects—</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  Any reduced cost risk to the contractor for costs incurred during contract performance before negotiation of the final price; </p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Any reduced cost risk to the contractor for costs expected to be incurred during performance of the remainder of the contract; and </p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  The extent to which costs have been incurred prior to definitization of the unpriced change order (see <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">215.404-71-3</ph> (d) (2)).  The risk assessment shall be documented in the price negotiation memorandum.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>