<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e29006" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title ">237.7003 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  Use the following clauses in all mortuary service solicitations and contracts, except do not use the clauses at <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7004</ph>, Area of Performance, in solicitations or contracts that include port of entry requirements:</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7003</ph>, Requirements, (insert activities authorized to place orders in paragraph (e) of the clause).</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7004</ph>, Area of Performance.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7005</ph>, Performance and Delivery.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7006</ph>, Subcontracting.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7007</ph>, Termination for Default.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7008</ph>, Group Interment.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(7)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7009</ph>, Permits.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(8)  <ph outputclass="Hyperlink" class="- topic/ph ">252.237-7011</ph>, Preparation History.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Use the clause at FAR 52.245-1, Government Property, with its Alternate I, in solicitations and contracts that include port of entry requirements.</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>