<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
	<concept id="d1e12038" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3" domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   " class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		<title class="- topic/title ">216.505 ORDERING.</title>
		<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General</i>.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6)  Orders placed under indefinite-delivery contracts may be issued on DD Form 1155, Order for Supplies or Services.</p>
			<p class="- topic/p ">(S-70)  Departments and agencies shall comply with the review, approval, and reporting requirements established in accordance with subpart 217.7 when placing orders under non-DoD contracts in amounts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold.</p>
			<p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Orders under multiple-award contracts.</i>
			</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Fair opportunity</i>.  </p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  See 215.101-2-70 for the limitations and prohibitions on the use of the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process, which are applicable to orders placed against multiple award indefinite delivery contracts.</p>
			<p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  See 217.7801 for the prohibition on the use of reverse auctions for personal protective equipment and aviation critical safety items.</p>
			<p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Exceptions to the fair opportunity process.</i>  For an order exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, that is a follow-on to an order previously issued for the same supply or service based on a justification for an exception to fair opportunity citing the authority at FAR 16.505(b)(2)(i)(B) or (C), follow the procedures at PGI 216.505(b)(2).</p>
		</conbody>
	</concept>
</dita>