<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_901_601_T48_503182311">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">901.601</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contracting authority for DOE vests in the Secretary of Energy, and for NNSA in the Administrator.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) The Secretary has delegated this authority to the DOE Senior Procurement Executive. The DOE Senior Procurement Executive has redelegated this authority to the DOE Heads of Contracting Activities (HCA). These delegations are formal written delegations containing specific dollar limitations and conditions. Each DOE HCA, in turn, makes formal contracting officer appointments for its contracting activity.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contracting authority for NNSA vests in the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security, also known as the NNSA Administrator. The NNSA Administrator has delegated this authority, with specific dollar limitations and conditions to the NNSA Senior Procurement Executive. The NNSA Senior Procurement Executive has redelegated this authority to the NNSA Head of the Contracting Activities (HCA). Each NNSA HCA in turn makes formal contracting officer appointments for its contracting activity.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The Senior Procurement Executives have been authorized, without power of redelegation, to perform the functions set forth at 48 CFR 1.601(b) regarding the assignment of contracting functions and responsibilities to another agency, and the creation of joint or combined offices with another agency to exercise acquisition functions and responsibilities.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
