<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_970_2704_1_T48_503264114114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">970.2704-1</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Rights in data relating to the performance of the contract and to all facilities are significant in assuring continuity of the management and operation of DOE facilities. It is crucial in assuring DOE's continuing ability to perform its statutory missions that DOE obtain rights to all data produced or specifically used by its management and operating contractors and appropriate subcontractors. In order to obtain the necessary rights in technical data, DOE contracting officers shall assure that management and operating contracts contain either the Rights in Data clause at 48 CFR 970.5227-1, Rights in Data - Facilities, or the clause at 48 CFR 970.5227-2, Rights in Data - Technology Transfer. Selection of the appropriate clause is dependent upon whether technology transfer is a mission of the management and operating contract pursuant to the National Competitiveness Technology Transfer Act of 1989, Public Law 101-189, (15 U.S.C. 3711 <i>et seq.,</i> as amended). If technology transfer is not a mission of the management and operating contract, the clause at 48 CFR 970.5227-1, Rights in Data - Facilities, shall be used. In those instances in which technology transfer is a mission of the contract, the clause at 48 CFR 970.5227-2, Rights in Data - Technology Transfer, shall be used. 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Employees of the management and operating contractor may not be used to assist in the preparation of a proposal or bid for services which are similar or related to those being performed under the contract, which are to be performed by the contractor or its parent or affiliate organization for commercial customers unless the employee has been separated from work under the DOE contract for such period as the Head of the Contracting Activity or designee shall have directed. 


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
