<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_909_504_T48_5031910312">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">909.504</ph> Contracting officer's responsibility.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The contracting officer shall evaluate the statement by the apparent successful offeror or, where individual contracts are negotiated with all firms in the competitive range, all such firms for interests relating to a potential organizational conflict of interest in the performance of the proposed contract. Using that information and any other credible information, the contracting officer shall make written determination of whether those interests create an actual or significant potential organizational conflict of interest and identify any actions that may be taken to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate such conflict. In fulfilling their responsibilities for identifying and resolving potential conflicts, contracting officers should avoid creating unnecessary delays, burdensome information requirements, and excessive documentation.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contracting officer shall award the contract to the apparent successful offeror unless a conflict of interest is determined to exist that cannot be avoided, neutralized, or mitigated. Before determining to withold award based on organizational conflict of interest considerations, the contracting officer shall notify the offeror, provide the reasons therefor, and allow the offeror a reasonable opportunity to respond. If the conflict of interest cannot be avoided, neutralized, or mitigated to the contracting officer's satisfaction, the contracting officer may disqualify the offeror from award and undertake the disclosure, evaluation, and determination process with the firm next in line for award. If the contracting officer finds that it is in the best interest of the United States to award the contract notwithstanding a conflict of interest, a request for waiver shall be submitted in accordance with 909.503. The waiver request and decisions shall be included in the contract file.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
