<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_952_227_84_T48_50325402152">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">952.227-84</ph> Notice of right to request patent waiver.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Include this provision in all appropriate solicitations in accordance with 48 CFR 927.409(t). 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Right To Request Patent Waiver (FEB 1998) 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Offerors have the right to request a waiver of all or any part of the rights of the United States in inventions conceived or first actually reduced to practice in performance of the contract that may be awarded as a result of this solicitation, in advance of or within 30 days after the effective date of contracting. Even where such advance waiver is not requested or the request is denied, the contractor will have a continuing right under the contract to request a waiver of the rights of the United States in identified inventions, i.e., individual inventions conceived or first actually reduced to practice in performance of the contract. Domestic small businesses and domestic nonprofit organizations normally will receive the patent rights clause at DEAR 952.227-11 which permits the contractor to retain title to such inventions, except under contracts for management or operation of a Government-owned research and development facility or under contracts involving exceptional circumstances or intelligence activities. Therefore, small businesses and nonprofit organizations normally need not request a waiver. See the patent rights clause in the draft contract in this solicitation. See DOE's patent waiver regulations at 10 CFR part 784.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of provision)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
