<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_202_1_T48_501836212">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.202-1</ph> Definitions.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_702_270_T48_501132"
                  href="Subpart_702_270_T48_501132.dita#Subpart_702_270_T48_501132">702.270</xref> and in (48 CFR) FAR Subpart 2.2, USAID contracts use the Definitions clause in (48 CFR) FAR 52.202-1 and its Alternate I, as appropriate, and the following additional definitions.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Alternate 70.</i> For use in all USAID contracts. Use in addition to the clause in FAR 52.202-1.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">USAID Definitions Clause - General Supplement for Use in All USAID Contracts (JAN 1990)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>USAID</i> shall mean the U.S. Agency for International Development.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Administrator</i> shall mean the Administrator or the Deputy Administrator of USAID.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) When this contract is with an educational institution <i>Campus Coordinator</i> shall mean the representative of the Contractor at the Contractor's home institution, who shall be responsible for coordinating the activities carried out under the contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) When this contract is with an educational institution <i>Campus Personnel</i> shall mean representatives of the Contractor performing services under the contract at the Contractor's home institution and shall include the Campus Coordinator.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Consultant</i> shall mean any especially well qualified person who is engaged, on a temporary or intermittent basis to advise the Contractor and who is not an officer or employee of the Contractor who performs other duties for the Contractor.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Contractor employee</i> shall mean an employee of the Contractor assigned to work under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Cooperating Country or Countries</i> shall mean the foreign country or countries in or for which services are to be rendered hereunder.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Cooperating Government</i> shall mean the government of the Cooperating Country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR),</i> when referred to herein shall include U.S. Agency for International Development Acquisition Regulations (AIDAR).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(j) <i>Government</i> shall mean the United States Government.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(k) <i>Mission</i> shall mean the United States AID Mission to, or principal USAID office in, the Cooperating Country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(l) <i>Mission Director</i> shall mean the principal officer in the Mission in the Cooperating Country, or his/her designated representative.</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Alternate 71.</i> For use in USAID contracts with an educational institution for participant training. Use in addition to the clauses in (48 CFR) FAR 52.202-1 and in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_752_202_1_T48_501836212"
                  href="Section_752_202_1_T48_501836212.dita#Section_752_202_1_T48_501836212">752.202-1</xref>(b) of this chapter.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">USAID Definitions Clause - Supplement for Contracts With an Educational Institution for Participant Training (MAY 2011)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Catalog</i> shall mean any medium by which the Institution publicly announces terms and conditions for enrollment in the Institution, including tuition and fees to be charged. This includes “bulletins,” “announcements,” or any other similar word the Institution may use.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Director</i> shall mean the individual who fills the USAID position of Director, Bureau for Economic Growth, Education and Environment, Office of Education (E3/ED), or authorized representative acting within the limits of the individual's authority.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Fees</i> shall mean those applicable charges directly related to enrollment in the Institution. This shall not include any permit charge (e.g., parking, vehicle registration), or charges for services of a personal nature (e.g., food, housing, laundry) unless specifically called for in this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Institution</i> shall mean the educational institution providing services hereunder. The terms “Institution” and “Contractor” are synonymous.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Tuition</i> shall mean the amount of money charged by an institution for instruction, not including fees as described in this section.</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Alternate 72.</i> For use in all USAID contracts which involve any performance overseas. Use in addition to the clauses in (48 CFR) FAR 52.202-1 and in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_752_202_1_T48_501836212"
                  href="Section_752_202_1_T48_501836212.dita#Section_752_202_1_T48_501836212">752.202-1</xref>(b) of this chapter.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">USAID Definitions Clause - Supplement for USAID Contracts Involving Performance Overseas (JUN 2009)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Contractor's Chief of Party</i> shall mean the representative of the Contractor in the Cooperating Country who shall be responsible for supervision of the performance of all duties undertaken by the Contractor in the Cooperating Country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Cooperating Country National (CCN) employee</i> means an individual who meets the citizenship requirements of the CCN definition in (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_702_170_T48_501131"
                  href="Subpart_702_170_T48_501131.dita#Subpart_702_170_T48_501131">702.170</xref> and is hired while residing outside the United States for work in a cooperating country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Dependents</i> shall mean:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Spouse;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Children (including step and adopted children) who are unmarried and under 21 years of age or, regardless of age, are incapable of self support.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) Parents (including step and legally adoptive parents), of the employee or of the spouse, when such parents are at least 51 percent dependent on the employee for support; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(4) Sisters and brothers (including step or adoptive sisters or brothers) of the employee, or of the spouse, when such sisters and brothers are at least 51 percent dependent on the employee for support, unmarried and under 21 years of age, or regardless of age, are incapable of self support.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Local currency</i> shall mean the currency of the Cooperating Country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Regular employee</i> shall mean a Contractor employee appointed to serve one year or more in the Cooperating Country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Short-term employee</i> shall mean a Contractor employee appointed to serve less than one year in the Cooperating Country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Third Country National (TCN) employee</i> means an individual who meets the citizenship requirements of the TCN definition in (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_702_170_T48_501131"
                  href="Subpart_702_170_T48_501131.dita#Subpart_702_170_T48_501131">702.170</xref> and is hired while residing outside the United States for work in a Cooperating Country.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
