<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_711_002_70_T48_501210011">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">711.002-70</ph> Metric system waivers.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Criteria.</i> The (48 CFR) FAR 11.002(b) requirement to use the metric system of measurement for specifications and quantitative data that are incorporated in or required by USAID contracts may be waived when USAID determines in writing that such usage is impractical or is likely to cause U.S. firms to experience significant inefficiencies or the loss of markets.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Authorization.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The USAID Metric Executive (as designated in ADS Chapter 323), the contracting officer, and the USAID official who approves the procurement requirement are authorized to waive the metric requirement for one of the above reasons. The USAID Metric Executive is authorized to overrule a decision to grant a waiver, or to nullify a blanket waiver made by another approving official so long as a contractor's rights under an executed contract are not infringed upon.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) A blanket waiver for a class of multiple transactions may be issued for a term not to exceed three years.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) When a waiver will be based upon the adverse impact on U.S. firms, clearance from the USAID Metric Executive and the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU) will be obtained prior to authorization.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Records and reporting.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The basis for each waiver and any plans to adapt similar requirements to metric specifications in future procurements should be documented in the contract file.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Each procurement activity will maintain a log of the waivers from the metric requirements which are authorized for its procurements. The logs shall list the commodity/service being procured, total dollar value of the procured item(s), waiver date, authorizing official, basis for waiver, and USAID actions that can promote metrication and lessen the need for future waivers.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Within 30 days of the closing of each fiscal year, each USAID/W procurement activity and each Mission will submit a copy of the metric waiver log for the year to the USAID Metric Executive. (Mission logs are to be consolidated in a Mission report for the procurement activity and for the nonprocurement activities maintaining such logs under the USAID Metric Transition Plan.) Repetitive purchases of commercially produced and marketed items and classes of items may be consolidated in reporting procurements that do not exceed $10,000 cumulatively during the reporting period.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
