<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7028_T48_5018363128">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7028</ph> Differential and allowances.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The following clause is for use in all USAID cost reimbursement contracts performed in whole or in part overseas.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Differentials and Allowances (JUL 1996)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(This clause does not apply to TCN or CCN employees. TCN and CCN employees are not eligible for differentials and allowances, unless specifically authorized by the cognizant Assistant Administrator or Mission Director. A copy of such authorization shall be retained and made available as part of the contractor's records which are required to be preserved and made available by the “Examination of Records by the Comptroller General” and “Audit” clauses of this contract).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Post differential.</i> Post differential is an additional compensation for service at places in foreign areas where conditions of environment differ substantially from conditions of environment in the continental United States and warrant additional compensation as a recruitment and retention incentive. In areas where post differential is paid to USAID direct-hire employees, post differential not to exceed the percentage of salary as is provided such USAID employees in accordance with the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 500 (except the limitation contained in Section 552, “Ceiling on Payment”) Tables-Chapter 900, as from time to time amended, will be reimbursable hereunder for employees in respect to amounts earned during the time such employees actually spend overseas on work under this contract. When such post differential is provided to regular employees of the Contractor, it shall be payable beginning on the date of arrival at the post of assignment and continue, including periods away from post on official business, until the close of business on the day of departure from post of assignment en route to the United States. Sick or vacation leave taken at or away from the post of assignment will not interrupt the continuity of the assignment or require a discontinuance of such post differential payments, provided such leave is not taken within the United States or the territories of the United States. Post differential will not be payable while the employee is away from his/her post of assignment for purposes of home leave. Short-term employees shall be entitled to post differential beginning with the forty-third (43rd) day at post.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Living quarters allowance.</i> Living quarters allowance is an allowance granted to reimburse an employee for substantially all of his/her cost for either temporary or residence quarters whenever Government-owned or Government-rented quarters are not provided to him/her at his/her post without charge. Such costs are those incurred for temporary lodging (temporary lodging allowance) or one unit of residence quarters (living quarters allowance) and include rent, plus any costs not included therein for heat, light, fuel, gas, electricity and water. The temporary lodging allowance and the living quarters allowance are never both payable to an employee for the same period of time. The Contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to employees for a living quarters allowance for rent and utilities if such facilities are not supplied. Such allowance shall not exceed the amount paid USAID employees of equivalent rank in the Cooperating Country, in accordance with either the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 130, as from time to time amended, or other rates approved by the Mission Director. Subject to the written approval of the Mission Director, short-term employees may be paid per diem (in lieu of living quarters allowance) at rates prescribed by the Federal Travel Regulations, as from time to time amended, during the time such short-term employees spend at posts of duty in the Cooperating Country under this contract. In authorizing such per diem rates, the Mission Director shall consider the particular circumstances involved with respect to each such short-term employee including the extent to which meals and/or lodging may be made available without charge or at nominal cost by an agency of the United States Government or of the Cooperating Government, and similar factors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Temporary quarters subsistence allowance.</i> Temporary quarters subsistence allowance is a quarters allowance granted to an employee for the reasonable cost of temporary quarters incurred by the employee and his family for a period not in excess of (i) 90 days after first arrival at a new post in a foreign area or a period ending with the occupation of residence (permanent) quarters, if earlier, and (ii) 30 days immediately preceding final departure from the post subsequent to the necessary vacating of residence quarters, unless an extension is authorized in writing by the Mission Director. The Contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to employees and authorized dependents for temporary quarters subsistence allowance, in lieu of living quarters allowance, not to exceed the amount set forth in the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 120, as from time to time amended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Post allowance.</i> Post allowance is a cost-of-living allowance granted to an employee officially stationed at a post where the cost of living, exclusive of quarters cost, is substantially higher than in Washington, DC. The Contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to employees for post allowance not to exceed those paid USAID employees in the Cooperating Country, in accordance with the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 220, as from time to time amended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Supplemental post allowance.</i> Supplemental post allowance is a form of post allowance granted to an employee at his/her post when it is determined that assistance is necessary to defray extraordinary subsistence costs. The Contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to employees for supplemental post allowance not to exceed the amount set forth in the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 230, as from time to time amended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Educational allowance.</i> Educational allowance is an allowance to assist an employee in meeting the extraordinary and necessary expenses, not otherwise compensated for, incurred by reason of his/her service in a foreign area in providing adequate elementary and secondary education for his/her children. The Contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to regular employees for educational allowances for their dependent children in amounts not to exceed those set forth in the Standardized (Regulations Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 270, as from time to time amended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Educational travel.</i> Educational travel is travel to and from a school in the United States for secondary education (in lieu of an educational allowance) and for college education. The Contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to regular employees for educational travel for their dependent children provided such payment does not exceed that which would be payable in accordance with the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 280, as from time to time amended. Educational travel shall not be authorized for regular employees whose assignment is less than two years.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Separate maintenance allowance.</i> Separate maintenance allowance is an allowance to assist an employee who is compelled, by reason of dangerous, notably unhealthful, or excessively adverse living conditions at his/her post of assignment in a foreign area, or for the convenience of the Government, to meet the additional expense of maintaining his/her dependents elsewhere than at such post. The Contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to regular employees for a separate maintenance allowance not to exceed that made to Aid employees in accordance with the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 260, as from time to time amended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>Payments during evacuation.</i> The Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas) provide the authority for efficient, orderly, and equitable procedure for the payment of compensation, post differential and allowances in the event of an emergency evacuation of employees or their dependents, or both, from duty stations for military or other reasons or because of imminent danger to their lives. If evacuation has been authorized by the Mission Director the Contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to employees and authorized dependents evacuated from their post of assignment in accordance with the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 600, and the Federal Travel Regulations, as from time to time amended.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(j) <i>Danger pay allowance.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contractor will be reimbursed for payments made to its employees for danger pay not to exceed that paid USAID employees in the cooperating country, in accordance with the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), Chapter 650, as from time to time amended.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Danger pay is an allowance that provides additional compensation above basic compensation to an employee in a foreign area where civil insurrection, civil war, terrorism or wartime conditions threaten physical harm or imminent danger to the health or well-being of the employee. The danger pay allowance is in lieu of that part of the post differential which is attributable to political violence. Consequently, the post differential may be reduced while danger pay is in effect to avoid dual crediting for political violence.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
