<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_222_71_T48_5018362115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.222-71</ph> Nondiscrimination.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_722_810_T48_501417212"
                  href="Section_722_810_T48_501417212.dita#Section_722_810_T48_501417212">722.810</xref>(b), insert the following clause in section I of all solicitations and resulting contracts.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">Nondiscrimination (June 2012)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">FAR part 22 and the clauses prescribed in that part prohibit contractors performing in or recruiting from the U.S. from engaging in certain discriminatory practices.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">USAID is committed to achieving and maintaining a diverse and representative workforce and a workplace free of discrimination. Based on law, Executive Order, and Agency policy, USAID prohibits discrimination in its own workplace on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and gender identity), national origin, disability, age, veteran's status, sexual orientation, genetic information, marital status, parental status, political affiliation, and any other conduct that does not adversely affect the performance of the employee. USAID does not tolerate any type of discrimination (in any form, including harassment) of any employee or applicant for employment on any of the above-described bases.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Contractors are required to comply with the nondiscrimination requirements of the FAR. In addition, the Agency strongly encourages all its contractors (at all tiers) to develop and enforce nondiscrimination policies consistent with USAID's approach to workplace nondiscrimination as described in this clause, subject to applicable law. </p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause) 
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
