<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_722_170_T48_501417116">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">722.170</ph> Employment of third country nationals (TCN's) and cooperating country nationals (CCN's).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>General.</i> It is USAID policy that cooperating country nationals (CCNs) and third country nationals (TCNs), who are hired abroad for work in a cooperating country under USAID-direct contracts, generally be extended the same benefits, and be subject to the same restrictions as TCNs and CCNs employed by the USAID Mission. Exceptions to this policy may be granted either by the Mission Director or the Assistant Administrator having program responsibility for the project. (TCN's and CCN's who are hired to work in the United States shall be extended benefits and subject to restrictions on the same basis as U.S. citizens who work in the United States.)
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Compensation.</i> Compensation, including merit or promotion increases paid to TCN's and CCN's may not, without the approval of the Mission Director or the Assistant Administrator having program responsibility for the project, exceed the prevailing compensation paid to personnel performing comparable work in the cooperating country as determined by the USAID Mission. Unless otherwise authorized by the Mission Director or the Assistant Administrator having program responsibility for the project, the compensation of such TCN and CCN employees shall be paid in the currency of the cooperating country.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Allowances and differentials.</i> TCN's and CCN's, hired abroad for work in a cooperating country, are not eligible for allowances or differentials under USAID-direct contracts, unless authorized by the Mission Director or the Assistant Administrator having program responsibility for the project.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Country and security clearances.</i> The contractor shall insure that the necessary clearances, including security clearances, if required, have been obtained for TCN and CCN employees in accordance with any such requirements set forth in the contract or required by the USAID Mission, prior to the TCN or CCN starting work under the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Physical fitness.</i> Contractors are required to insure that prospective TCN and CCN employees are examined prior to employment to determine whether the prospective employee meets the minimum physical requirements of the position and is free from any contagious disease.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Workweek, holidays, and leave.</i> The workweek, holidays, and leave for TCN and CCN employees shall be the same as for all other employees of the contractor, under the terms of the contract; however, TCN and CCN employees are not eligible for home leave or military leave unless authorized by the Mission Director or the Assistant Administrator having program responsibility for the project.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Travel and transportation for TCN's and CCN's.</i> Travel and transportation shall be provided TCN and CCN employees on the same basis as for all other employees of the contractor, under the terms of the contract.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Household effects and motor vehicles.</i> USAID will not provide household effects to TCN and CCN employees; such employees may ship their household effects and motor vehicles to their place of employment on the same basis as for all other employees of the contractor, under the terms of the contract unless they are residents of the cooperating country.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
