<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_733_103_73_T48_501526115">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">733.103-73</ph> Protests excluded from Agency consideration.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Contract administration.</i> Disputes between a contractor and USAID are resolved pursuant to the disputes clause of the contract and the Contract Disputes Act of 1978.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Small business size standards and standard industrial classification.</i> Challenges of established size standards or the size status of particular firms, and challenges of the selected standard industrial classification are for review solely by the Small Business Administration.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Procurement under Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act.</i> Contracts are let under Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act to the Small Business Administration solely at the discretion of the contracting officer, and are not subject to review.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Protests filed in the Government Accountability Office (GAO).</i> Protests filed with the GAO will not be reviewed.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Procurements funded by USAID to which USAID is not a party.</i> No protest of a procurement funded by USAID shall be reviewed unless USAID is a party to the acquisition agreement.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Subcontractor protests.</i> Subcontractor protests will not be considered.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Judicial proceedings.</i> Protests will not be considered when the matter involved is the subject of litigation before a court of competent jurisdiction or when the matter involved has been decided on the merits by a court of competent jurisdiction.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Determinations of responsibility by the contracting officer.</i> A determination by the contracting officer that a bidder or offeror is or is not capable of performing a contract will not be reviewed by the M/OAA Director.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(i) <i>Small Business Certificate of Competency Program.</i> Any referral made to the Small Business Administration pursuant to section 8(b)(7) of the Small Business Act, or any issuance of, or refusal to issue, a certificate of competency under that section will not be reviewed by the M/OAA Director.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
