<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_227_70_T48_5018362120">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.227-70</ph> Patent reporting procedures.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_727_303_T48_501521111"
                  href="Section_727_303_T48_501521111.dita#Section_727_303_T48_501521111">727.303</xref>, insert the following clause in all solicitations and contracts that contain the clause at (48 CFR) FAR 52.227-11.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Patent Reporting Procedures (AUG 1999)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Reporting inventions.</i> In accordance with 37 CFR part 401, each USAID-funded research recipient must disclose each subject invention to USAID as required in (48 CFR) FAR 52.227-11(c). Such reports must be made via the National Institutes of Health (NIH) EDISON Patent Reporting and Tracking system. NIH created EDISON to help assist research recipients to comply with the Bayh-Dole Act and report in a timely manner all patentable inventions arising out of Federally-sponsored research programs. The EDISON system uses Web technology to allow research recipients to report and monitor their invention reports, with the assurance that proprietary data is securely stored. The Web site for EDISON (<i>http://www.iedison.gov</i>) provides users with an invention reporting test site, as well as applicable instructions for complying with Government regulations, and increases the potential for successful commercialization of the inventions by helping to ensure that all reporting requirements are met and that ownership rights are clearly established.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Reports on utilization of subject inventions as required under (48 CFR) FAR 52.227-11(f) must be provided to the USAID contracting officer's technical representative annually, and the last report under an agreement must be provided within 90 days of the expiration of the agreement.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
