<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_719_273_4_T48_501416215">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">719.273-4</ph> Eligibility of Mentor and Protégé firms.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Eligible business entities approved as Mentors may enter into agreements (hereafter referred to as “Mentor-Protégé Agreement” or “Agreement” and explained in section <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_273_6_T48_501416217"
                  href="Section_719_273_6_T48_501416217.dita#Section_719_273_6_T48_501416217">719.273-6</xref>) with eligible Protégés. Mentors provide appropriate developmental assistance to enhance the capabilities of Protégés to perform as contractors and/or subcontractors. Eligible small business entities capable of providing developmental assistance may be approved as Mentors. Protégés may participate in the Program in pursuit of a prime contract or as subcontractors under the Mentor's prime contract with the USAID, but are not required to be a subcontractor to a USAID prime contractor or be a USAID prime contractor. Notwithstanding eligibility requirements in this section, USAID reserves the right to limit the number of participants in the Program in order to insure its effective management of the Mentor-Protégé Program.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Eligibility.</i> A Mentor:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) May be either a large or small business entity;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Must be eligible for award of Government contracts;
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Must be able to provide developmental assistance that will enhance the ability of Protégés to perform as prime contractors or subcontractors; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Will be encouraged to enter into arrangements with entities with which it has established business relationships.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Eligibility.</i> A Protégé:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Must be a small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone, small socially and economically disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business);
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Must meet the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code that the Mentor prime contractor believes best describes the product or service being acquired by the subcontract; and
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Eligible for award of Government contracts.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Protégés may have multiple Mentors. Protégés participating in Mentor-Protégé programs in addition to USAID's Program should maintain a system for preparing separate reports of Mentoring activity so that results of the USAID Program can be reported separately from any other agency program.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) A Protégé firm shall self-certify to a Mentor firm that it meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and possess related certifications granted by the Small Business Administration (e.g., HUBZone, 8(a), etc.). Mentors may rely in good faith on written representations by potential Protégés that they meet the specified eligibility requirements. HUBZone and small disadvantaged business status eligibility and documentation requirements are determined according to 13 CFR part 124.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
