<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7027_T48_5018363127">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7027</ph> Personnel.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">For use in all USAID services contracts involving performance overseas. Note that paragraphs (f) and (g) of this clause are for use only in cost reimbursement contracts.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Personnel (DEC 1990)
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Clearance.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			<i>Individuals engaged or assigned within the United States.</i> The contractor will obtain written notification from the contracting officer of Cooperating Country clearance of any employee sent outside the United States to perform duties under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Individuals engaged or assigned when outside the United States.</i> No individual shall be engaged or assigned when outside the United States to perform work outside the United States under this contract unless authorized in the schedule or otherwise approved by the contracting officer or Mission Director. However, when services are performed in the Cooperating Country on a casual or irregular basis or in an emergency, exception to this provision can be made in accordance with instructions or regulations established by the Mission Director.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Physical fitness of employees and dependents.</i> See the clause of this contract entitled Physical Fitness.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Conformity to laws and regulations of Cooperating Country.</i> Contractor agrees to use its best efforts to assure that its employees and their dependents, while in the Cooperating Country, abide by all applicable laws and regulations of the Cooperating Country and political subdivisions thereof.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Importation or sale of personal property or automobiles.</i> To the extent permitted by Cooperating Country laws, the importation and sale of personal property or automobiles by contractor employees and their dependents in the Cooperating Country shall be subject to the same limitations and prohibitions which apply to U.S. nationals employed by the Mission. This provision does not apply to employees or consultants who are citizens or legal residents of the Cooperating Country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Economic and financial activities.</i> Other than work to be performed under this contract for which an employee or consultant is assigned by the contractor, no such employee or consultant of the contractor shall engage, directly or indirectly, either in his/her own name or in the name or through the agency of another person, in any business, profession or occupation in the Cooperating Country or other foreign countries to which he/she is assigned, nor shall he make loans or investments to or in any business, profession or occupation in the Cooperating Country or other foreign countries in which he/she is assigned. This provision does not apply to employees or consultants who are citizens or legal residents of the Cooperating Country.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">[The following paragraphs (f) and (g) are applicable only to cost reimbursement contracts.]
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Duration of appointments.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Regular employees will normally be appointed for a minimum of 2 years which period includes orientation (less language training) in the United States and authorized international travel under the contract except:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) An appointment may be made for less than 2 years if the contract has less than 2 years but more than 1 year to run provided that if the contract is extended the appointment shall also be extended to the full 2 years. This provision shall be reflected in the employment agreement prior to employment under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) When a 2-year appointment is not required, appointment may be made for less than 2 years but in no event less than 1 year.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) When the normal tour of duty established for USAID personnel at a particular post is less than 2 years, then a normal appointment under this contract may be of the same duration.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) When the contractor is unable to make appointments of regular employees for a full 2 years, the contractor may make appointments of less than 2 but not less than 1 year, provided that such appointment is approved by the contracting officer.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Services required for less than 1 year will be considered short-term appointments and the employee will be considered a short-term employee.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) <i>Employment of dependents.</i> If any person who is employed for services in the Cooperating Country under this contract is either 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			a dependent of an employee of the U.S. Government working in the Cooperating Country, or (2) a dependent of a contractor employee working under a contract with the U.S. Government in the Cooperating Country, such person shall continue to hold the status of a dependent. He or she shall be entitled to salary for the time services are actually performed in the Cooperating Country, and differential and allowances as established by the Standardized Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas).</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
