<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_247_70_T48_5018362134">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.247-70</ph> Preference for privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_747_507_T48_501733111"
                  href="Section_747_507_T48_501733111.dita#Section_747_507_T48_501733111">747.507</xref>, insert the following clause: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (OCT 1996)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Under the provisions of the Cargo Preference Act of 1954 (46 U.S.C. 55305)) at least 50 percent of the gross tonnage of equipment, materials, or commodities financed by USAID, or furnished without provision for reimbursement, or at least 50 percent of the gross tonnage of cargo moving under P.L. 480 financed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, that may be transported in ocean vessels (computed separately for dry bulk carriers, dry cargo liners, and tankers) shall be transported in privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) In accordance with USAID regulations and consistent with the regulations of the Maritime Administration, USAID applies Cargo Preference requirements on the basis of program that generally include more than one contract. Thus, the amount of cargo fixed on privately owned U.S.-flag vessels under this contract may be more or less than the required 50 percent, depending on current compliance with Cargo Preference requirements. 
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(c)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contractor must submit one legible copy of a rated on-board ocean bill of lading for each shipment to both Office of Cargo and Commercial Sealift, Maritime Administration (MARAD), U.S. Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590, and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), Bureau for Management, Office of Acquisition and Assistance, 1300 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., SA-44, Room 859, Washington, DC 20523 as follows:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) for PL 480 (Food aid shipments) scanned copies must be sent to: <i>freightedbills@usaid.gov.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) For all Non P.L. 480 (Non Food Aid Shipments) scanned copies must be sent to: <i>Oceantransportation@USAID.gov.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) For all shipments, scanned copies for MARAD must be sent to: <i>Cargo.MARAD@DOT.gov.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The contractor shall furnish these bill of lading copies within 20 working days of the date of loading for shipments originating in the United States, or within 30 working days for shipments originating outside the United States. Each bill of lading copy shall contain the following information:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Sponsoring U.S. Government agency.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Name of vessel.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Vessel flag registry.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) Date of loading.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Port of loading.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vi) Port of final discharge.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(vii) Description of commodity.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(viii) Gross weight in kilograms/pounds and volume in liters/cubic feet, if available.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ix) Total ocean freight revenue in U.S. dollars. </p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
