<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7005_T48_501836316">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7005</ph> Submission requirements for development experience documents.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The following clause must be inserted in all USAID professional/technical contracts in which development experience documents are likely to be produced.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Submission Requirements for Development Experience Documents (Sept 2013)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Contract Reports and Information/Intellectual Products.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Within thirty (30) calendar days of obtaining the contracting officer representative's approval, the contractor must submit to USAID's Development Experience Clearinghouse (DEC) one copy each of reports and information products which describe, communicate or organize program/project development assistance activities, methods, technologies, management, research, results and experience. These reports include: Assessments, evaluations, studies, technical and periodic reports, annual and final reports, and development experience documents (defined as documents that:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Describe the planning, design, implementation, evaluation, and results of development assistance; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Are generated during the life cycle of development assistance programs or activities.) The contractor must also submit copies of information products including training materials, publications, videos and other intellectual deliverable materials required under the Contract Schedule. The following information is not to be submitted:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(A) Time-sensitive materials such as newsletters, brochures or bulletins.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(B) The contractor's information that is incidental to award administration, such as financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management information.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of the contract, the contractor must submit to the DEC any reports that have not been previously submitted and an index of all reports and information/intellectual products referenced in paragraph (a)(1) of this clause.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Submission requirements. The contractor must review the DEC Web site for the most up-to-date submission instructions, including the DEC address for paper submissions, the document formatting and the types of documents to be submitted. The submission instructions can be found at: <i>https://dec.usaid.gov.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Standards.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Material must not include financially sensitive information or personally identifiable information (PII) such as social security numbers, home addresses and dates of birth. Such information must be removed prior to submission.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) All submissions must conform to current USAID branding requirements.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Contract reports and information/intellectual products can be submitted in either electronic (preferred) or paper form. Electronic documentation must comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iv) The electronic submissions must consist of only one electronic file, which comprises the complete and final equivalent of the paper copy. 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(v) Electronic documents must be in one of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA)-approved formats as described in NARA guidelines related to the transfer of permanent E-records. (See <i>http://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/initiatives/transfer-to-nara.html</i>).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Essential bibliographic information. Descriptive information is required for all contractor products submitted. The title page of all reports and information products must include the contract number(s), contractor name(s), name of the USAID contracting officer's representative, the publication or issuance date of the document, document title, (if non-English, provide an English translation of the title), author name(s), and development objective or activity title (if non-English, provide a translation) and associated number, and language of the document (if non-English). In addition, all hard copy materials submitted in accordance with this clause must have, attached as a separate cover sheet, the name, organization, address, telephone number, fax number, and internet address of the submitting party.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
