<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_204_71_T48_501836215">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.204-71</ph> Partner vetting.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_704_7005_T48_50115318"
                  href="Section_704_7005_T48_50115318.dita#Section_704_7005_T48_50115318">704.7005</xref>(b)(1) and <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_716_506_T48_501314213"
                  href="Section_716_506_T48_501314213.dita#Section_716_506_T48_501314213">716.506</xref>(a), insert the following clause in all contracts subject to vetting:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Partner Vetting (FEB 2012)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor must comply with the vetting requirements for key individuals under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Definitions. As used in this provision - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Key individual</i> means:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) Principal officers of the organization's governing body (e.g., chairman, vice chairman, treasurer and secretary of the board of directors or board of trustees);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(ii) The principal officer and deputy principal officer of the organization (<i>e.g.,</i> executive director, deputy director, president, vice president);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(iii) The program manager or chief of party for the USG-financed program; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(iv) Any other person with significant responsibilities for administration of the USG-financed activities or resources, such as key personnel as described in Automated Directives System Chapter 302. Key personnel, whether or not they are employees of the prime contractor, must be vetted.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Vetting official</i> means the USAID employee identified in paragraph (d) of this clause as having responsibility for receiving vetting information, responding to questions about information to be included on the USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, coordinating with the USAID Office of Security, and conveying the vetting determination to each offeror, potential subcontractors subject to vetting, and to the contracting officer. The vetting official is not part of the contracting office and has no involvement in the source selection process.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The Contractor must submit a USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the vetting official identified below during the contract when the Contractor replaces key individuals with individuals who have not been previously vetting for this contract. Note: USAID will not approve any key personnel who have not passed vetting.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The designated vetting official is:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Vetting official: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Address: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P"/>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Email: __________ (for inquiries only)
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(e)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The vetting official will notify the Contractor that it - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Has passed vetting,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Has not passed vetting, or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Must provide additional information, and resubmit the USAID Partner Information Form with the additional information within the number of days the vetting official specifies.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The vetting official will include in the notification any information that USAID's Office of Security (SEC) determines releasable. In its determination, SEC will take into consideration the classification or sensitivity of the information, the need to protect sources and methods, or status of ongoing law enforcement and intelligence community investigations or operations.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Reconsideration.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Within 7 calendar days after the date of the vetting official's notification, the contractor or prospective subcontractor that has not passed vetting may request in writing to the vetting official that the Agency reconsider the vetting determination. The request should include any written explanation, legal documentation and any other relevant written material for reconsideration.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Within 7 calendar days after the vetting official receives the request for reconsideration, the Agency will determine whether the contractor's additional information warrants a revised decision.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Agency's determination of whether reconsideration is warranted is final.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) A notification that the Contractor has passed vetting does not constitute any other approval under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) When the contractor anticipates awarding a subcontract for which consent is required under (48 CFR) FAR clause 52.244-2, Subcontracts, the subcontract is subject to vetting. The prospective subcontractor must submit a USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the vetting official identified in paragraph (d) of this clause. The contracting officer must not consent to award of a subcontract to any organization that has not passed vetting when required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) The contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of paragraphs (a) through (g) of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">Alternate I (FEB 2012). As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_704_7005_T48_50115318"
                  href="Section_704_7005_T48_50115318.dita#Section_704_7005_T48_50115318">704.7005</xref>(b)(2), substitute paragraphs (h) and (i) below for paragraphs (h) and (i) of the basic clause:
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(h)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			When the contractor anticipates awarding a subcontract for which consent is required under (48 CFR) FAR clause 52.244-2, Subcontracts, the subcontract is subject to vetting. The prospective subcontractor must submit a USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the vetting official identified in paragraph (d) of this clause. The contracting officer must not consent to award of a subcontract to any organization that has not passed vetting when required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) In addition, prospective subcontractors at any tier providing the following classes of items (supplies and services):
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">must pass vetting. Contractors must not place subcontracts for these classes of items until they receive confirmation from the vetting official that the prospective subcontractor has passed vetting.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) The contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
