<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_216_71_T48_5018362110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.216-71</ph> Partner vetting in indefinite delivery contracts.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_716_506_T48_501314213"
                  href="Section_716_506_T48_501314213.dita#Section_716_506_T48_501314213">716.506</xref>(b)(1), insert the following clause in all indefinite-delivery contracts subject to vetting:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Partner Vetting in Indefinite Delivery Contracts (FEB 2012)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor must comply with the vetting requirements for key individuals under this contract and in any orders that are identified as subject to vetting.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Definitions. As used in this provision - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Key individual</i> means:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) Principal officers of the organization's governing body (e.g., chairman, vice chairman, treasurer and secretary of the board of directors or board of trustees);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(ii) The principal officer and deputy principal officer of the organization (e.g., executive director, deputy director, president, vice president);
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(iii) The program manager or chief of party for the USG-financed program; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(iv) Any other person with significant responsibilities for administration of the USG-financed activities or resources, such as key personnel as described in Automated Directives System Chapter 302. Key personnel, whether or not they are employees of the prime contractor, must be vetted.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Vetting official</i> means the USAID employee identified in paragraph (d) of this clause as having responsibility for receiving vetting information, responding to questions about information to be included on the USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, coordinating with the USAID Office of Security, and conveying the vetting determination to each contractor, potential subcontractors subject to vetting, and to the cognizant contracting officer. The vetting official is not part of the contracting office and has no involvement in the source selection process.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor must submit a USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13 to the designated vetting official:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) when the contractor replaces key individuals under the basic contract with individuals who have not been previously vetted.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) when the contractor replaces key individuals under an order subject to vetting with individuals who have not been previously vetted. For changes to any key individuals associated with both the basic contract and any orders subject to vetting, the contractor must submit updated vetting forms to each designated vetting official. Note: USAID will not approve any key personnel who have not passed vetting.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The designated vetting official for the basic contract is:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Vetting official: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Address: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P"/>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">Email: __________ (for inquiries only)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Each order subject to vetting will identify the vetting official for that order. The contractor must submit vetting information specific to an order to the vetting official identified in that order.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(e)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The vetting official will notify the contractor that it - 
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(i) Has passed vetting,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Has not passed vetting, or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Must provide additional information, and resubmit the USAID Partner Information Form with the additional information within the number of days the vetting official specifies.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The vetting official will include in the notification any information that USAID's Office of Security (SEC) determines releasable. In its determination, SEC will take into consideration the classification or sensitivity of the information, the need to protect sources and methods, or status of ongoing law enforcement and intelligence community investigations or operations.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(f) <i>Reconsideration.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Within 7 calendar days after the date of the vetting official's notification, the contractor or prospective subcontractor that has not passed vetting may request in writing to the vetting official that the Agency reconsider the vetting determination. The request should include any written explanation, legal documentation and any other relevant written material for reconsideration.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Within 7 calendar days after the vetting official receives the request for reconsideration, the Agency will determine whether the contractor's additional information warrants a revised decision.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The Agency's determination of whether reconsideration is warranted is final.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(g) A notification that the contractor has passed vetting does not constitute any other approval under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(h) The request for task or delivery order proposals will identify whether the order is subject to vetting. The following are the procedures for vetting orders under this contract. Note that the term “awardee” as used below refers to a contractor under multiple-award indefinite-delivery contracts, consistent with the use of the term in (48 CFR) FAR 16.505(b):
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contracting officer will notify the awardees when to complete and submit the USAID Partner Information Form to the vetting official named in the request for order proposals. Note: Awardees who submit using non-secure methods of transmission do so at their own risk.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The awardee must notify proposed subcontractors of this requirement when the subcontractors are subject to vetting.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(3) The fair opportunity process proceeds separately from vetting. Vetting is conducted independently from any discussions the contracting officer may have with an awardee. The awardee and any subcontractor subject to vetting must not provide vetting information to other than the vetting official identified in the request for order proposal. The awardee and any subcontractor subject to vetting will communicate only with the vetting official regarding their vetting submission(s) and not with any other USAID or USG personnel, including the contracting officer or his/her representatives.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(4)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			The vetting official notifies the awardee that it:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(A) Has passed vetting,
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(B) Has not passed vetting, or
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(C) Must provide additional information, and resubmit the USAID Partner Information Form with the additional information within the number of days the vetting official specified in the notification.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The vetting official will include in the notification any information that USAID's Office of Security (SEC) determines releasable. In its determination, SEC will take into consideration the classification or sensitivity of the information, the need to protect sources and methods, or status of ongoing law enforcement and intelligence community investigations or operations.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(5) <i>Reconsideration.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Within 7 calendar days after the date of the vetting official's notification, an awardee that has not passed vetting may request in writing to the vetting official that the Agency reconsider the vetting determination. The request should include any written explanation, legal documentation and any other relevant written material for reconsideration.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Within 7 calendar days after the vetting official receives the request for reconsideration, the Agency will determine whether the contractor's additional information warrants a revised decision.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(iii) The Agency's determination of whether reconsideration is warranted is final.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(6) <i>Revisions to vetting information.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Before the order is awarded, any awardee who changes key individuals, whether it has previously passed vetting or not, must submit a revised USAID Partner Information Form to the vetting official. This includes changes to key personnel resulting from revisions to the technical proposal.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The order vetting official will follow the vetting process in paragraph (e) of this clause for any revision of the awardee's Form.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(7) <i>Award of order.</i> The contracting officer may award an order subject to vetting only to an apparently successful awardee that has passed vetting for that order.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(i) When the contractor anticipates awarding a subcontract for which consent is required under (48 CFR) FAR clause 52.244-2, Subcontracts, the subcontract is subject to vetting. The prospective subcontractor must submit a USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the designated vetting official. The contracting officer must not consent to award of a subcontract to any organization that has not passed vetting when required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(j) The contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of paragraphs (a) through (g) of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
         <p xtrc="P">Alternate I (FEB 2012). As prescribed in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_716_506_T48_501314213"
                  href="Section_716_506_T48_501314213.dita#Section_716_506_T48_501314213">716.506</xref>(b), substitute paragraphs (i) and (j) below for paragraphs (i) and (j) of the basic clause:
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(i)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			When the contractor anticipates awarding a subcontract for which consent is required under (48 CFR) FAR clause 52.244-2, Subcontracts, the subcontract is subject to vetting. The prospective subcontractor must submit a USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the designated vetting official. The contracting officer must not consent to award of a subcontract to any organization that has not passed vetting when required.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) In addition, prospective subcontractors at any tier providing the following classes of items (supplies and services):
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP">must pass vetting. Contractors must not place subcontracts for these classes of items until they receive confirmation from the vetting official that the prospective subcontractor has passed vetting.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(j) The contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause in all subcontracts under this contract.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
