<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_204_72_T48_501836216">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.204-72</ph> Access to USAID facilities and USAID's information systems.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_704_404_T48_50115111"
                  href="Section_704_404_T48_50115111.dita#Section_704_404_T48_50115111">704.404</xref>(b), insert the following clause in all solicitations and contracts that contain the provision at (48 CFR) FAR 52.204-9(a):
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Access to USAID Facilities and USAID's Information Systems (AUG 2013)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) A U.S. citizen or resident alien engaged in the performance of this award as an employee, consultant, or volunteer of a U.S firm may obtain access to USAID facilities or logical access to USAID's information systems only when and to the extent necessary to carry out this award and in accordance with this clause. The contractor's employees, consultants, or volunteers who are not U.S. citizen as well as employees, consultants, or volunteers of non-U.S. firms, irrespective of their citizenship, will not be granted logical access to U.S. Government information technology systems (such as Phoenix, GLAAS, etc.) and must be escorted to use U.S. Government facilities (such as office space).
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Before a contractor (or a contractor employee, consultant, or volunteer) or subcontractor at any tier may obtain a USAID ID (new or replacement) authorizing the individual routine access to USAID facilities in the United States, or logical access to USAID's information systems, the individual must provide two forms of identity source documents in original form to the Enrollment Office personnel when undergoing processing. One identity source document must be a valid Federal or State Government-issued picture ID. Contractors may contact the USAID Security Office to obtain the list of acceptable forms of documentation. Submission of these documents, to include documentation of security background investigations, are mandatory in order for the contractor to receive a PIV/FAC card and be granted access to any of USAID's information systems. All such individuals must physically present these two source documents for identity proofing at their enrollment.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor or its Facilities Security Officer must return any issued building access ID and remote authentication token to the contracting officer's representative (COR) upon termination of the individual's employment with the contractor or completion of the contract, whichever occurs first.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) Individuals engaged in the performance of this award as employees, consultants, or volunteers of the contractor must comply with all applicable Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12) and Personal Identity Verification (PIV) procedures, as described above, and any subsequent USAID or Government-wide HSPD-12 and PIV procedures/policies.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(e) The contractor is required to insert this clause in any subcontracts that require the subcontractor, subcontractor employee, or consultant to have routine physical access to USAID space or logical access to USAID's information systems.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
