<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_704_7004_1_T48_50115315">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">704.7004-1</ph> Preaward requirements.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) When USAID determines an acquisition to be subject to vetting, the contracting officer determines the appropriate stage of the acquisition cycle to require offerors to submit the completed USAID Partner Information Form, USAID Form 500-13, to the vetting official identified in the solicitation. The contracting officer must specify in the solicitation the stage at which the offerors will be required to submit the USAID Partner Information Form.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) For negotiated procurements using (48 CFR) FAR part 15, this stage will typically be when the contracting officer establishes the competitive range (48 CFR 15.306(c)). However, the contracting officer may determine that vetting is more appropriate at a different stage of the source selection process, such as immediately prior to award, and then require only the apparently successful offeror to submit the completed USAID Partner Information Form.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) For Indefinite Delivery contracts under (48 CFR) FAR subpart 16.5, vetting will occur prior to award of the basic contract if the contracting officer anticipates placing orders subject to vetting under that contract. Vetting will also occur before USAID places any orders subject to vetting. The contracting officer will notify awardees of the appropriate timing for vetting in the request for task or delivery order proposals. See (48 CFR) AIDAR subpart <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_716_5_T48_5013142"
                  href="Subpart_716_5_T48_5013142.dita#Subpart_716_5_T48_5013142">716.5</xref> for vetting procedures for task and delivery orders.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) For all other acquisitions, including those under (48 CFR) FAR parts 13 and 14, the contracting officer determines the appropriate time to require potential awardee(s) to submit the completed USAID Partner Information Form to the vetting official.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Source selection proceeds separately from vetting. The source selection authority makes the source selection determination separately from the vetting process and without knowledge of vetting-related information other than that the apparently successful offeror has passed or not passed vetting.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The contracting officer may only award to an offeror who has passed vetting.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
