<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7036_T48_5018363136">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7036</ph> USAID Implementing Partner Notices (IPN) portal for acquisition.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">Insert the following clause in section I of all solicitations and resulting contracts, except for orders under indefinite delivery contracts issued pursuant to (48 CFR) FAR subpart 16.5; orders under Federal Supply (GSA) Schedules issued pursuant to (48 CFR) FAR subpart 8.4; and contracts and purchase orders awarded under the simplified acquisitions procedures of (48 CFR) FAR part 13.</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD2">USAID Implementing Partner Notices (IPN) Portal FOR Acquisition (July 2014)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this clause - 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>“Universal” bilateral modification</i> means a bilateral modification, as defined in FAR subpart 43.1, that updates or incorporates new FAR or AIDAR clauses, other terms and conditions, or special requirements, affecting all USAID awards or a class of awards, as specified in the Agency notification of such modification.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>USAID Implementing Partner Notices (IPN) Portal for Acquisition (IPN Portal)</i> means the single point where USAID uploads universal bilateral modifications, which can be accessed electronically by registered USAID contractors. The IPN Portal is located at <i>https://sites.google.com/site/ipnforacquisitions/.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>IPN Portal Administrator</i> means the USAID official designated by the M/OAA Director, who has overall responsibility for managing the USAID Implementing Partner Notices Portal for Acquisition.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) By submission of an offer and execution of a contract, the Offeror/Contractor acknowledges the requirement to:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) Register with the IPN Portal if awarded a contract resulting from this solicitation; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Receive universal bilateral modifications of this contract and general notices through the IPN Portal.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Procedure to register for notifications.</i> Go to: <i>https://sites.google.com/site/usaidipnforacquisitions/</i> and click the “Register” button at the top of the page. Contractor representatives must use their official organization email address when subscribing, not personal email addresses.
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Processing of IPN portal modifications.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The contractor may access the IPN Portal at any time to review all IPN Portal modifications; however, the system will also notify the contractor by email when the USAID IPN Portal Administrator uploads a universal bilateral modification for contractor review and signature. Proposed IPN Portal modifications distributed through the IPN Portal are applicable to all awards, unless otherwise noted in the proposed modification.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) Within 15 calendar days from receipt of the notification email from the IPN Portal, the contractor must do one of the following:
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List3">(i)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			Verify applicability of the proposed modification to their award(s) per the instructions provided with each modification;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(B) Download the modification and incorporate the following information on the SF30 form: contract number, organization name, and organization mailing address as it appears in the basic award;
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(C) Sign the hardcopy version; and
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List4">(D) Send the signed modification (by email or hardcopy) to the contracting officer for signature;
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">
                                       <i>Note to paragraph (d)(2)(i):</i> The contractor must not incorporate any other changes to the IPN Portal modification.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(ii) Notify the Contracting Officer in writing if the modification requires negotiation of the additional changes to terms and conditions of the contract; or
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(iii) Notify the contracting officer that the contractor declines to sign the modification.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">(3) Within 30 calendar days of receipt of a signed modification from the contractor, the contracting officer must provide the fully executed modification to the contractor or initiate discussions with the contractor. Bilateral modifications provided through the IPN Portal are not effective until both the contractor and the contracting officer sign the modification.</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD3">(End of clause)
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
