<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_701_601_T48_50112411">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">701.601</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Pursuant to the delegations in USAID's Automated Directives System (ADS) Chapter 103, the M/OAA Director is authorized to act as the head of the agency for all purposes described in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR, 48 CFR chapter 1), except for the authority in (48 CFR) FAR 6.302-7(a)(2), 6.302-7(c)(1), 17.602(a), 19.201(c), 27.306(a), 27.306(b), and 30.201-5, or where the “head of the agency” authority is expressly not delegable under the FAR or AIDAR. Further, the M/OAA Director is responsible for implementing the procurement related aspects of the Foreign Assistance Act, Executive Order 11223, the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, and other statutory and Executive Branch procurement policies and requirements applicable to USAID operations, including those authorities and responsibilities delegated to the Senior Procurement Executive as specified in USAID's internal delegations found in the ADS.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The M/OAA Director has specific authority to:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) Select and appoint contracting officers and terminate their appointments in accordance with section 1.603 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and 
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Exercise in person or by delegation the authorities stated in subpart 1.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation with regard to deviations from that regulation.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Except as otherwise prescribed, the head of each contracting activity (as defined in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Subpart_702_170_T48_501131"
                  href="Subpart_702_170_T48_501131.dita#Subpart_702_170_T48_501131">702.170</xref>) is responsible for the procurement of supplies and services under or assigned to the procurement cognizance of his or her activity. The heads of USAID contracting activities are vested with broad authority to carry out the programs and activities for which they are responsible. This authority includes authority to execute contracts and the establishment of procurement policies, procedures, and standards appropriate for their programs and activities, subject to Government-wide and USAID requirements and restrictions, such as those found at (48 CFR) AIDAR <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_701_601_T48_50112411"
                  href="Section_701_601_T48_50112411.dita#Section_701_601_T48_50112411">701.601</xref> and particularly <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_701_603_70_T48_50112415"
                  href="Section_701_603_70_T48_50112415.dita#Section_701_603_70_T48_50112415">701.603-70</xref>, the USAID policy regarding the direct-hire status of contracting officers.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The authority of heads of contracting activities to execute contracts is limited as follows:
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Director, the Bureau of Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance, the Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance (DCHA/OFDA).</i> Authority to execute contracts for disaster relief purposes during the first 72 hours of a disaster in a cumulative total amount not to exceed $500,000. Authority to execute simplified acquisitions up to $50,000 at any time. May issue warrants for simplified acquisitions up to $50,000 to qualified individuals on his or her staff.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Director, Bureau for Economic Growth, Education and Environment, Office of Education (E3/ED).</i> Authority to execute simplified acquisitions up to $10,000. Unlimited authority for procuring participant training based on published catalog prices. May issue warrants for simplified acquisitions up to $10,000 to qualified individuals on his or her staff.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) <i>Overseas heads of contracting activities.</i> Authority to sign contracts where the cumulative amount of the contract, as amended, does not exceed $1,000,000 (or local currency equivalent) for personal services contracts; or the simplified acquisition threshold as defined in (48 CFR) FAR 2.101 (or local currency equivalent) for all other contracts. May issue warrants for simplified acquisitions up to $50,000 to qualified individuals on his or her staff.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
