<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7009_T48_5018363110">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7009</ph> Marking.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The following clause is for use in all USAID contracts performed in whole or in part overseas.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Marking (JAN 1993)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) It is USAID policy that USAID-financed commodities and shipping containers, and project construction sites and other project locations be suitably marked with the USAID emblem. Shipping containers are also to be marked with the last five digits of the USAID financing document number. As a general rule, marking is not required for raw materials shipped in bulk (such as coal, grain, etc.), or for semifinished products which are not packaged.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) Specific guidance on marking requirements should be obtained prior to procurement of commodities to be shipped, and as early as possible for project construction sites and other project locations. This guidance will be provided through the cognizant technical office indicated on the cover page of this contract, or by the Mission Director in the Cooperating Country to which commodities are being shipped, or in which the project site is located.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Authority to waive marking requirements is vested with the Regional Assistant Administrators, and with Mission Directors.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) A copy of any specific marking instructions or waivers from marking requirements is to be sent to the contracting officer; the original should be retained by the Contractor.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
