<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_719_271_7_T48_501416119">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">719.271-7</ph> Reports on procurement actions that are exempted from screening.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Unilateral and class set-asides.</i> The contracting officer shall prepare Form USAID 1410-14 as stated in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118"
                  href="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118.dita#Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118">719.271-6</xref>, but forward only the duplicate copy with the documentation required by Block 5 of the form to OSDBU. The original will be filed in the contract file.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) If, upon review of the material submitted under <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_271_7_T48_501416119"
                  href="Section_719_271_7_T48_501416119.dita#Section_719_271_7_T48_501416119">719.271-7</xref>(a) above, OSDBU concludes that it would be practicable to accomplish all or a portion of the procurement involved under section 8(a) subcontracting, it shall so advise the contracting officer in writing within five days after receipt of such material.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Such advice shall be considered a counter-recommendation and shall be processed in accordance with <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118"
                  href="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118.dita#Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118">719.271-6</xref> (d) and (e).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Public exigency exemption.</i> The contracting officer shall prepare Form USAID 1410-14 as stated in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118"
                  href="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118.dita#Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118">719.271-6</xref>, but forward only the duplicate copy with the documentation required by Block 5 of the form to OSDBU. In addition to the documentation called for in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118"
                  href="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118.dita#Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118">719.271-6</xref>, the contracting officer shall furnish a copy of his/her written determination exempting the procurement from screening. The determination shall cite the pertinent facts which led to his/her decision. This exemption is not intended to be used as substitute for good procurement planning and lead-time; OSDBU will report abuses of this exemption to the head of the contracting activity for appropriate action in accordance with <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_271_4_T48_501416116"
                  href="Section_719_271_4_T48_501416116.dita#Section_719_271_4_T48_501416116">719.271-4</xref>(c).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Institution building contract (IBC) exemption.</i> The contracting officer shall prepare Form USAID 1410-14 as stated in <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  base="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118"
                  href="Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118.dita#Section_719_271_6_T48_501416118">719.271-6</xref>, but forward only the duplicate copy with the documentation required by Block 5 of the form to OSDBU.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Personal services contract exemption.</i> Preparation of Form USAID 1410-14 is not required for personal services contracts.
</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
