<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7021_T48_5018363121">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7021</ph> Changes in tuition and fees.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">For use in contracts for participant training with an educational institution.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Changes in Tuition and Fees (APR 1984)
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">While educational programs for participants will be established utilizing the Contractor's currently applicable tuition and fee schedule, the parties understand that such standard tuition and fees may be subject to change during the course of the program. If such event results in an increase in the cost of the program, USAID agrees to pay such increased standard tuition and fees in the next applicable academic term as a condition for the continuation of the program. If such change results in a decrease in the cost of the program, the Contractor agrees to charge to USAID only the amount of such revised standard tuition and fees in the next applicable academic term. The Contractor shall undertake to keep USAID currently advised as to changes in its standard tuition and fees. At such time as increases in the amounts of tuition and fees results in there being inadequate funds remaining in this contract to meet the costs of the next academic term, the Contractor will so advise USAID. USAID may then provide such additional funds as required to complete the program.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
