<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7019_T48_5018363119">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7019</ph> Participant training.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">For use in any USAID direct contract involving training of USAID participants.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Participant Training (JAN 1999)
</p>
                                    <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			Participant training is the training of any foreign national outside of his or her home country, using USAID funds.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) A Participant is any foreign national being trained under this contract outside of his or her country.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Applicable regulations.</i> Participant training conducted under this contract shall comply with the policies and essential procedures pertaining to training-related services contained in USAID Automated Directive System (ADS) Ch. 253 “Training for Development Impact”. Any exceptions to ADS 253 requirements are specified as such within this contract. The entire ADS is accessible to the general public at the following USAID Internet address: <i>http://www.usaid.gov/policy/ads/.</i>
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) The contractor shall be reimbursed for the reasonable and allocable costs incurred in providing training to participants in the United States or other approved location provided such costs do not exceed the limitations in, or have been waived in accordance with, ADS 253.</p>
                                 
                                    <p>
            <b>Note:</b>
         </p>
                                    <p outputclass="Normal">Academic rates are available through a special website monitored by the United States Information Agency. The website for academic programs is: <i>http://www.iie.org/fulbright/posts/restrict.</i> U.S.-based participants receive the standardized U.S. travel per diem rates maintained by GSA for short-term training (website: <i>http://policyworks.gov</i>).</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
