<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_752_7003_T48_501836314">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">752.7003</ph> Documentation for payment.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The following clause is required in all USAID direct contracts, excluding fixed price contracts: 
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="HD1">Documentation for Payment (NOV 1998)
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(a) Claims for reimbursement or payment under this contract must be submitted to the Paying Office indicated in the schedule of this contract. The contracting officer's representative (CTO) is the authorized representative of the Government to approve vouchers under this contract. The Contractor must submit either paper or fax versions of the SF-1034 - Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal. Each voucher shall be identified by the appropriate USAID contract number, in the amount of dollar expenditures made during the period covered.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(1) The SF 1034 provides space to report by line item for products or services provided. The form provides for the information to be reported with the following elements:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="DIV">
                                       
                                       
                                          <table frame="all" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
               <title>
                                          Total Expenditures

                                          [Document Number: XXX-X-XX-XXXX-XX]

                                       </title>
               <tgroup cols="4" outputclass="FormatA">
                  <colspec colnum="1" colname="1" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="2" colname="2" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="3" colname="3" colsep="0"/>
                  <colspec colnum="4" colname="4" colsep="0"/>
                  <thead>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1">Line item No.
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2">Description
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3">Amt. vouchered to date
</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4">Amt. vouchered this period
</entry>
                                             </row>
                  </thead>
                  <tbody>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left">001</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left">Product/Service Desc. for Line Item 001</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="right">$XXXX.XX</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="right">$ XXXX.XX
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left">002</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left">Product/Service Desc. for Line Item 002</entry>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="right">XXXX.XX</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="right">XXXX.XX
</entry>
                                             </row>
                     <row rowsep="1">
                                                <entry colname="1" align="left">Total</entry>
                                                <entry colname="2" align="left"/>
                                                <entry colname="3" align="right">XXXX.XX</entry>
                                                <entry colname="4" align="right">XXXX.XX</entry>
                                             </row>
                  </tbody>
               </tgroup>
            </table>
                                       
                                    </p>
                                    <p outputclass="List2">(2) The fiscal report shall include the following certification signed by an authorized representative of the Contractor:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="P">The undersigned hereby certifies to the best of my knowledge and belief that the fiscal report and any attachments have been prepared from the books and records of the Contractor in accordance with the terms of this contract and are correct: the sum claimed under this contract is proper and due, and all the costs of contract performance (except as herewith reported in writing) have been paid, or to the extent allowed under the applicable payment clause, will be paid currently by the Contractor when due in the ordinary course of business; the work reflected by these costs has been performed, and the quantities and amounts involved are consistent with the requirements of this Contract; all required contracting officer approvals have been obtained; and appropriate refund to USAID will be made promptly upon request in the event of disallowance of costs not reimbursable under the terms of this contract.
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">BY:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">TITLE:
</p>
                                    <p xtrc="FP-DASH">DATE:
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Local currency payment.</i> The Contractor is fully responsible for the proper expenditure and control of local currency, if any, provided under this contract. Local currency will be provided to the Contractor in accordance with written instructions provided by the Mission Director. The written instructions will also include accounting, vouchering, and reporting procedures. A copy of the instructions shall be provided to the Contractor's Chief of Party and to the contracting officer. The costs of bonding personnel responsible for local currency are reimbursable under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(c) Upon compliance by the Contractor with all the provisions of this contract, acceptance by the Government of the work and final report, and a satisfactory accounting by the Contractor of all Government-owned property for which the Contractor had custodial responsibility, the Government shall promptly pay to the Contractor any moneys (dollars or local currency) due under the completion voucher. The Government will make suitable reduction for any disallowance or indebtedness by the Contractor by applying the proceeds of the voucher first to such deductions and next to any unliquidated balance of advance remaining under this contract.
</p>
                                    <p outputclass="List1">(d) The Contractor agrees that all approvals of the Mission Director and the Contracting Officer which are required by the provisions of this contract shall be preserved and made available as part of the Contractor's records which are required to be presented and made available by the clause of this contract entitled “Audit and Records - Negotiation”.</p>
                                 </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
